
Evet gençler. Kapasitörlere girmişti. Hızlı bir hatırlatalım. Tanım olarak yük bölü potansiyel fark yani aslında iki tane şey var. Nedir?

İki tane yüzey var. O yüzeyde bir pozitif bir negatif iki tane ürün var ve bu yüklerde işte bunları hangi potansiyelle ayırabiliyorsunuz? Bunun bir ölçüsü fakat biz bunu mesela hani yaptığımızda şunu görüyoruz yani yük bölü potansiyel yani noluyor? Klonp bölü volt. Klonp bölü volta farat diyoruz yani işte bir pile bağladığımız zaman mesela bunu gerçekleştirebiliriz.

Şunu gördük arkadaşlar. Bir kapasitörde yani bu, hangi yaptığımız yük bir yük yolunun üzerinden yaparsak eğer mesela paralel şeyde paralel playde'de Epson sıfır alan bölü d yani kapasitörün aslında şeyi arkadaşlar yani sadece yevmiyeye bağlı diyelim yani ne kadar potansiyel uyguladığınız, ne kadar şey yaptığınız değil yani bu ne kadar çok potansiyel uygularsan o kadar çok yük biriktirirsin yani asıl mantık o ama kapasitörün şeyi nedir genelde yani genelde değil hep, yani Epson sıfır çarpı işte alan bölüm mesafe yani Epson sıfır çarpı bir uzunluk hani metrekare bölü metre bir uzunluk oluyor. Kapasitörlerin değerinin de küçük olması bundan dolayı yani Epson sıfır dediğimiz değer on üzeri eksi on iki gibi bir sayı. Onun için yani siz bunu binle çarparsanız on üzeri eksi dokuz olur yani işte on binle çarparsan on üzeri eksi sekiz olur. Kapasitörlerin de pratikte monofarad, mikroofarad olmasının sebebi de zaten bu.

Yani Epson sıfır çok küçük bir sayı olduğu için geometriyle değiştirdiğiniz şeyler sizi çok böyle Epson sıfırdan uzaklaştıramıyor. İşte başka işte neyi gördük? Kapasitörleri gördük. O da işte iç içe geçmiş küreler. Burdan da yaptığımızda yine şöyle bir şey görüyoruz burda işte iç iç veli, şey iç yarıçap a, dış yarıçap b.

Yine fiziksel parametrelere yani geometriye bağlı olduğunu görüyoruz. Bir de silindirik baktık. İşte o size ifade olarak şunu görmüş olduk yani kapasitör ifadesi işte şurada, bu da, şu şekilde yine Epsono sıfır var, bir uzunluk var yani burdaki silindirin uzunluğu bölü LM B bölü a burda iç yarıçap ve dış yarıçapın oranı şeklinde yapabiliriz yani ve burda işte o fizik, hangi fiziksel parametreleri değiştirerek bu kapasitörün kapasitesini yükseltiriz gibi bir şey var. Genel iki yüz ay arası motorun kapasitesi de o kadar çok artıyor yani siz artı yüklü eksi yükü birbirine çok yakın tutarsanız eğer kapasite değeriniz artar. Evet pratikte bu bazı sıkıntılar şey yapıyor, yaratabilir yani çünkü çok böyle yakın olduğu zaman ve çok yüklediğiniz zaman bir ark veya bir şeyle boşalmasının söz konusu olabilir.

Bazen işte onu da engellemek için değişik metodlar var. Neyse. Şimdi kapasitörleri devam edelim.


So our next, topic will be finding the energy energy stored in capacitors. So why do we talk about energy? Well, first of all, what you are doing is, you are basically taking or measuring you have plus, minus, plus, minus here. Again, minus, plus, minus, plus there. So what you're doing is that you are taking the charge and putting on here, the the positive charge here, and it of take it back and put here so that at the end, what you are doing is basically a positive and negative.

So you are carrying the charges. So that's why we we have So at the end, what we get, like, positive on all sides and negative on the other side. So, again, why did the work, for example, is f times doctor. So what is the forced forces qE times doctor, like that. And and then this is equal to minus potential energy difference.

So the potential energy was the charge divided by the potential, and the potential energy difference is q times the potential, potential difference. So because you know, why we are because we are carrying the the the charges, and, we are applying forces on them. That's why the there's a work there there's work to be done. So at the end, we are changing the potential energy of the system, and that's why it stores energy. And, so if we want to calculate, for example, here so if we think in terms of little bit of energy is equal to q times little bit of potential.

Right? So what we need is just take the integral of this one and on that one. So what is q times v? V and q are related. Right?

So they depend on each other. Right? So the capacity is equal to v q divided by v. So then if I wanna write dv, so v is equal to q by c, and we can write dv as dq by c. So we have to take this one, this expression, and put it in here.

After we do that, then our potential will be q times dq by c, and this will be equal to, q squared divided by 2 c. So this is the potential of a charged capacitor, and you can write q since q is equal to c times v, you can write, here as well, c square times v square here. And if you plug that one in here, what you will get, c times b squared divided by 2. Also, you can write with, you can write here c is equal to q divided by potential. So you can plug that one in here, and you will find that will be equal to q times v divided by 2.

Okay. So all the the expressions for energy, all of them. And what is the unit for energy? That is joules. Right?

So here again, so the energy in joules let's remind ourselves. So for this formula, that will be column squared divided by farad is joules. Again, that is equal to c is farad times v volt square is joules as well, and that is equal to joule times v, which is coulomb times volt. So these are all equal to joules. Okay.

So we can calculate, the the energy for each capacitor. So in our previous problem here. For example, if you want to let me just take the sky. So now previous problem, for example, if you want to write, so this was 4 divided by. So at the end, what we get was from here is 6 microfarad, and it was 120 volts.

If you wanna calculate the energy, so that's going to be c times v squared divided by 2, right, cv squared by 2. So 6 times 120 squared divided by 2 is the total energy here. So that will be 43100,000 200, and that will be since this is a micro carat and this is volts, so that's going to be microjoules. So you can write this thing as 43.2 millijoules. So that would each be equal to this.

So if it some letters to it, there's 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5. So it's going to be this u 1 plus u 2 plus u 3 plus u 4 plus u 5 will be equal to 43.2 millijoules. So I don't wanna do all of them, but just to for the sake of the argument, so previously, in, in the first step here, just a step before, so this was 18 microfarad, and this was 9 microfarad. And, again, this was, here 40 volts, and this was 80 volts. So let's check let's just check with this one rather than doing 5 other calculations.

So for this one also, u 1 plus u 2 should be equal to 43.2. So here, so what is u 1? That is, so 18 times 40 squared divided by 2 and then 80 so 9 times 80 squared divided by 2. So so let me make my point. So this is 14,400 plus.

So that will be 28 800 plus. So I'm just going to give you this much of microjubes. Okay. Next. Because u is c times v squared and Buddha formula Okay.

So what is the energy density? Energy density of a capacitor. So energy density, we're gonna call this little u. So so it's going to be small u. So that will be energy divided by volume.

So when you think of a capacitor, a parallel plate like that, So the there's some volume associated with this. So if this is the area and that's the thickness, so a times d is going to give us the volume. And, so this little u so what is the energy? So for example, the energy is d c times b squared divided by 2. That's the energy divided by the area volume.

The answer the volume. So what about the the potential here? So this potential here is or the electric field times the distance. Right? And I can write this thing as well.

So the capacity c what is v squared? That is e squared times little d squared. There's 1 over 2 here. So 1 over 2, that's 2, and a times d, like that. And I can also write the what is e.

So there is some sigma, which is the charge density. Remember? So charge density is the charge divided by area. So here, or should I go that way? Maybe I shouldn't go that way.

I should go the other way, which is the I can write the electric field in terms of charge density. So here, the electric field is equal to sigma divided by epsilon 0. Okay. So let me plug that information here. Let's see, the sigma squared times, one of the d cancels out.

So d here. So this cancels with that. E square. I should get, what is 2 here? So there's an area.

Very quick. Like that. Okay. And lastly okay. So I should have written it in no.

I should have written it just once, not step by step, but what is capacity? Capacity is a epsilon 0 a all divided by d for parallel plate. So if I finally plug that information here again, so this little u is equal to this capacity, which is epsilon0a divided by b. So there's sigma square. There is 2.

There is area. There is epsilon square, and there is little d here. Okay. So d cancels out, a cancels out, and, epsilon 0, one of them cancels out. So that's going to be sigma squared divided by 2epsilon.

So there's the charge density. In terms of charge density, what is the energy So in our example, we are going to charge c 1. So c 1 is equal to 8 micro perad and is charged with This chart with, math. It's just has a charge, c one, like that, and has a charge of 960 microcoulomb. So that means charged with 120 volts.

Next, c one is connected, disconnected, is disconnected from the battery, and connected to to c 2, which has 4 microfarad capacitor. And c 2. Let's say, s show that I'm gonna draw. So find find charges and potentials of each capacitor. So we have c one here, and c one is connected to a battery.

So this is the battery, which is under 20 volts. Battery like that. And, so let me just write it this way. So it's connected, and then it's charged and disconnected. That means c one is like that.

And now we are trying to connect it to oh, let me just write it this way. So so this is c 1, and that is c 2. So we are basically connecting to c 2, but now this has, charges like that. So what would be the charge distribution after we do this? So what do we know?

So from here, so this is given, but, so the total charge here is equal to c times v and which is basically what what is given to us, 8 times, 120 volts is going to give us 960 microcoulombs. So that is the charge on c one. And c 2 is, c 2 initially is not charged. So after we, turn on the switch, what's going to happen? Hey.

They make. Okay. This is c one. And after we connect it, it looks like this. So this is c 2, and this is c one.

So, initially, the total charge here, the q total is 960 microcoulombs. So then the after we wait and after we turn on the switch and wait, this will have charge q one, and this will have charge q two. And this q1 plus q2 will be the total charge, which is 960 coulomb microcoulomb. Okay. So how do we, let's say, how do we distribute them?

So we know that since this is point a, that is point b here, the potentials are the same for both capacitors. So for both capacitors, potentials are the same. So that means, I can distribute them according to here. So what is q so what is v v potential, v a b potential is, q 1 divided by c 1, which is equal to q 2 divided by c 2. Okay.

So this one so what is q one? That is c onevab plus c two v a b, which is q two. That is equal to 960 microcoulomb. So from here, I can plug in the value and then find out what v a b is, or I can say also from here, I can also calculate q 1 and q 2 with respect to, the ratio as well. So here, c one is 8.

So 8 times v plus 4 times v, and that's equal to 960 micro micro. So there's a, so that's going to be micro divided by micro, microfarad. So micro cancels out, and that's give that's gonna give you some voltage. Right? So that's going to be 960 divided by 12 is our new voltage.

So what is that? 960. Yes. 80. So this will be 80 volts, which is our potentials of VAB here.

So this is our new potential. So will be q one will be c one times b a b, and that will be 8 microcoulombs. 8 microcoulombs times, 80 volts, which is 6 40 micro, microcurrent here. Q one is this 1, and q two will be, similarly, 3 20 microcolumn. So if you add that up, you will get 6960 microcoulomb.

Good. So if we as in summary of what we did, so we had this one. So, initially, all the charges were here, and this is empty. So in this case, the total charge is 960 microcoulomb, and the potential for v 1 was 120 volts, and v 2 was the 0 potential. So this is v 2.

And the charge or let's say, this was the charge of q 1, and then q 2 was also 0. So after we wait, I mean, like, very short amount of time, so what we get here, 640 microcoulomb and 80 volts, and this guy, 320 microcoulomb and 80 volts. So this is 4 microfarads, 8 microfarads. Okay. So now let's calculate the energies.

Okay? So what about the energy? So we are done with this. So what about uinitial and ufinal? And u is 1 over 2 c times b square, for example.

So so the initial energy is 1 over 2. The the capacity here is 8, 88 microcoulomb, microfarad times the voltage square, 128 square, plus 0 from this one. There's no energy here. What about final? So this thing comes out to be a 120 times, a 120 times 4.

Under microjoules. There's the energy. So final, this one, so that's going to be 1 over 2, 8 times our new potential is 80 squared plus 1 over 2 times 4. Our new potential is 80 squared again. So that's going to be times 80.

It's under it. And then times oh, times 6. So that's going to be 38,400, if I'm not mistaken. The key. So here, your initial is greater than your final.

What is going on? C 1, c 2. Really? Final. E 1 c.

So this is initial. This is fine. For example, we can say also, c one is also charged. And maybe a scenario is also c 2 is charged, but the polarity is opposite. Meaning that, for example, this has a positive charge here, negative charge here.

This has a negative charge there and positive charge. So if, for example, q one initial is, let's say, 100, microcoulomb, and q two initial is, let's say, 50 microcoulomb. So this is q total is 150 microcoulomb. If the so this is this case, for example. So for this one, let's say q one initial is 100 microcoulombs, and q two initial is, let's say, minus 50 microcoulombs.

Then this will be positive 50 microcoulombs. So these are conserved, and you can you will distribute that then.

It's a lot of the now, which the utility uses it's kind of dielectrics. So we have a capacitor, like that. And what we are doing is we are, taking a metric and, forcing it between the 2 parallel plates of the capacitor. And then so this is this is a dielectric. Let's say slab.

Slab So, so dielectrics are so what are the purpose of the of these? So dielectrics are used to increase the capacity or a capacitor. And, also, it also increase the stability. It also increases the stability physical stability of capacitor. So so we have the dialectics.

So what's happening with the dialectics? Example, if, so imagine we have a capacitor, and and then, it is charged. Let's say, like this. So charged capacitor. And imagine we are measuring the voltage, for example.

So the voltage looks like this, for example. So that's the voltage that we are measuring. And we take the same setup and plug in a capacitor or dielectrics between the the plates. So what's happening So when we plug in the values, or, like, the the capacity values here so here, this is the capacitor. So what's happening here is the voltage increases.

So it's going to be something like this. So voltage increases in this case. So we haven't done anything yet anything else, but the voltage increase. So what does that mean? So the capacity is q divided by the potential difference.

Okay? So if I plug in some dielectrics here, well, what would be the explanation of a change in the potential? Then in So if we have the, let's say, a c prime, which we let's call it with a capacitance to in capacitance. So c prime, equals, let's say, q prime and delta v prime. Let's say so we know that delta v is increasing, so so it increases.

And since it, or decreases. Sorry. Yeah. From the down shell and, well, which basically should decrease as in after and could be set up to. Voltage is decreasing.

Okay? If the voltage is decreasing, so we have 2, possibilities, whether the new charge is decreasing or this doesn't change or the capacity is increasing and the charge doesn't change. So what else, can be the case here? So we know that, q prime is constant or q prime and q are the same. So that means that c prime must increase.

So so this means the c delta b prime, let's say, here should be equal to c prime delta b prime. K? Because they the the charges are the same, and, then c prime must be greater than c. Okay. And and with with the same proportionality.

So if this is, this is the if the voltage is decreasing by half, then c prime must increase, twice. Okay. So the I'm going to introduce this letter, pa, kappa. And that is called dielectric constant. So what's happening in this picture and the the first and the second picture so in the first case, c is, c is this value.

And then in the second case, c prime has increased by kappa times delta v. Or I can write also v zero, but that will not that. So delta delta v divided by kappa. Right? So kappa is a constant, and we can say that the kappa is, always greater than equal to 1 because the empty space, kappa empty space or kappa value is equal to 1.

So anything else must be greater than 1. And would it have to be in Azama's teaching? And that today is in the Azama's in the way, there's a way really pop up. Various values. So for example so the the the the main problem, so I should write here c.

Sorry. Right? So it's kappa times c. So sometimes, the, this is called c 0, and then c prime is kappa times c 0. But we get the point.

Kappa values versus the the materials. So if it is a vacuum, the kappa value is 1.000, and it goes to infinity. So it's exactly 1. And if it's air, for example, and it is, 1.006. So, so what does air have?

Air has nitrogen, like the atmosphere, nitrogen, oxygen, and, humidity as well. So all those gas materials are going to increase the the air dielectric value. And, so for example, if we use Teflon, the the value was 2.1. And if we use glass, the value is between 510 depending on the type of the glass. And if we use, glycerin so it's bathroom temperature.

Glycerin is liquid. This is 42.5. And strong strontium titanate, I think that's one of the highest one. Strontium titanate. And that gives us 310 value.

So we want this copper as high as possible so that we we can increase the capacity. So what we establish is this. We have c here or c 0. And if we add some dielectric to it, Some dielectric like this. So did this new so this is basically a new capacitor.

And So this one will have couple times easier, this new capacity. So if you use this one, so if this is, for example, 1 nanofarads, then this will be maybe, like, 4 nanofarads. So kappa being 4. And, so what's happening with that one is if you use this so imagine you have a potential difference of delta v here And imagine you have c 0 here, and you get the same thing and, again, here delta v potential. So now what's happening so this one is with, with a dielectric between the the plates.

Of this one would be, the c prime would be couple times c 0. So in this case, if you compare these 2, what's going to happen is this if this has q zero charge, then this will have this q prime will be couple times q zero. And that's how you increase the how the increase of capacity makes sense. So because with the same, potential difference. K?

So that's the the scenario. Alright. So let's look into what's happening in within the the the capacitor if we, inside if we, if we put a dielectric material inside. So let's look into, what is happening to, for example, electric field within the capacitor when dielectric kappa dielectric material is inserted. Inserted.

Okay. So, let's just take these two lines as a capacitor, which is, charged. Let's say, positive charge like that. Negative, negative, negative, negative. So, this will have a electric field from this direction to that direction.

Let's call this, like, e zero electric field. And this is a capacitor with c zero value and and that will have an e zero electric field. And e zero electric field is charge density divided by epsilon 0. So remember, charge density is the charge divided by area and area. So total charge divided by the area.

And if we take the same capacitor, so I'm gonna make it a little bit bigger, and fill it with, dielectric material, so like that. Maybe let me just cheat a little bit with this ticket. Alright. So what's happening is we still have, so it's the same, let's say, the, q zero charges. So there are q zero charges here, and then there will be also a q zero charge here and an electric field in this direction.

Let's call this, like, e zero. So what's happening inside of the material is that they will become polarized like this. So this is, like, the atom or the molecules that I am exaggerating like this. So they they they will become polarized or they will become dipoles and like that. So, minus minus and plus like this.

So the major scale is going to be, polarist. And my question will be acting So, what's happening so it's gonna go on forever like this. So I don't need to draw, like, 4 of them, but it's going to be avocados number here. So these these are the number of molecules. So so these are, so I'm going to write here as like, you see like this.

And maybe let me just use another, color for here. Negative, negative, negative, like that, negative and negative like this. And they will, you know, accompany it with accompany it with a positive. So it goes on. A so here, we will have positive, positive, positive like this with a negative on the side like that.

And it goes along the sides here. But what's happening here is that there are positive charges, very close to the negative charges on the right hand side. And because they are, what we call as, like, induced, so there are negative charges here. So this is minus q zero charges, and this is plus q zero charges there. And so if take, for example, so imagine we have situations like this.

So imagine this is negative, positive, negative, positive, and negative, positive. And it answers with negative and positive like that. So if you take, for example, from here to here, a region. So imagine you take a region like this, and this will neutralize itself. So, like, the total charge here will be 0.

Right? Well, the total charge with itself is 0, but as if these are, like, canceling each other, canceling each other, canceling each other so that this, picture, we can write this or accept this picture to be something like this. So we have, again, q0 here. Negative charges there. Negative q0.

And what's happening here is the opposite ones opposite charges will accumulate towards here, and positive charges will accumulate here, but they are not as many as q zeros. Okay? So these are not so the the charges so we call them, like, these charges are induced charges. Epsilon, e zero electric field, due to this. But they are not as many as the, q zero.

So if we call them, like, q prime should we call them q prime? Yeah. Or in this q in this. Okay. So this will be the the the charges that I'm going to call the, like, q I, induced charges, and the amount of induced charges will be less than q 0.

So I'm gonna wrap this up. So here, the from the positive charges, the the the black positive charge to, let's say, an electric field in this direction. So what we call this is easier. Right? And due to this red charges within the, within the dielectric, there will be an so there will be an electric field, which we will call in the opposite direction EI induced electric electric field.

So within the so within the the dielectric within the dielectric, there are now 2 electric fields. 1 is e zero like that, and the other is e induced like that. So e induced is the, induced electric field electric field in the dielectric material. So is the net electric field is going to be something like this. So this is the total electric field like that.

So that's why electric field is decreasing. That's why the potential is decreasing when you insert the dielectric material. So here so this is the net electric field, and we can call this as, let's say, e prime e prime. So e prime is less than e. Also, the what we say is delta b prime is also less than b 0.

Right? So delta v or delta v. That's, you know, that's why the potential is decreased. So if this is, So what we show here is why the potential is decreasing. So the induct induced potential is decreasing.

And, so if we give, for example, so values, so I can write. So from here, e is equal to e zero minus e in use. And I can write this in terms of in terms of the charge density. So here, the charge density is sigma 0 divided by epsilon 0, the guy. And I'm going to write the other one as, sigma or should I say So let me let me let me be careful here.

Sigma induced. So there are more than one way to write this. So let me just take notes. Okay. So let me start from here.

Okay. So this is equal to e 0 divided by kappa. Right? Why? Because potential difference is decreased by kappa value.

Right? And that's why the initial electric field is also decreased by kappa. And, so from here so E 0 kappa and minus e zero kappa plus e zero is equal to induced electric field. So, here, e zero one minus one over kappa is going to give us the induced electric field. And, so this is equal to e zero kappa minus 1 divided by kappa.

So this is the electric field, the induced amount of electric field in the dielectric material. Alright. So, what else? I can write this as, I can also, write this in terms of charge density. So, here Again so from here, this one is e 0 by sigma0 divided by kappaepsilon0.

Sigma sufferer, Buddha, chariot, and. Sigma induced digits. Alright. So this is, equal to I can, again, I can write here. Maybe I can just plug in here as well.

So from this, I can I can write this thing as well? So e induced is equal to e 0 kappa minus 1 divided by kappa. And if I write in terms of charge density, so this will be sigma induced divided by epsilon 0. And this is, e 0 is sigma 0 divided by epsilon 0, and then this is kappa minus 1 divided by kappa. We can cancel out epsilon zeros, and sigma induced can be written as kappa minus 1 divided by kappa.

So that's why you can never get 1 to 1 ratio here. You will always get less than the induced charge. And, so this is also the the charge in use is equal to the original charge, kappa minus 1 divided by kappa. So this quantity is always less than 1, And that's why you can never get a 100 one to 1 ratio. 052.

Copper. Copper. Q induced will be 20299 divided by 300. It is less still less than itself. It is getting close, but not exactly the same.

Okay. So, so we can say that, for example, if we want to write, like, q in this to be, like, q 0, this equal to be q 0, that means copper value will be, like, much, much larger, like infinity. So the the material is something like metal when copper is getting a lot bigger. So in that case, you are inducing that, the the same amount of charge. Okay.

So what if, for example, we place a metal? So, since we discussed this so let's just say, so imagine we put metal here, but we wanna make sure that it's not touching to the surface. So what's happening here is that let me just use this gray. So this is the metal. So we can write this as so this one and this one, something like this.

So this is to that. And, so here, the metal is represented as this, and it's connected with a wire like that and another surface here. So it's the same picture. And we may have or even slab So imagine this distance is so let's just so imagine is d and now let's say the distance here is d by 10 and this is d by 10. And the question is, what is the new capacitance here?

K? So, so, again, this is d by 10 and d by 10. And if I look in the first original picture, so before putting in let me take this and slide it to the right. So the first picture is this. And we have a c zero capacitor like that with a distance d.

So c 0 is epsilon 0, the area divided by d. So the area is the area of the the plate. And so in this case, so this one is a capacitance. There's new capacitance. So this new capacitance so let me call this c one.

So c one is epsilon 0 a divided by d 10. Right? D divided by 10. So c one is actually 10 times epsilon 0 a by d, which is equal to 10 times c 0. So this capacitance is 10 times c 0.

This capacitance is also 10 times c 0 since they are in series. So so in series, what is it? That's going to be 1 1 plus 1 over c 2, and then you reverse it. And that will make c 1 c 2 divided by c 1 plus c 2 of 10 times c 0, 10 times c 0 divided by 20 times c 0. And at the end, what we get here will be 5 c 0.

So this is our new capacities. Come. So, since I started with this, let me make a couple of, similar questions. But now let's use capacitor. I mean, dielectrics.

So so let's imagine we have this capacitor, and and then we take this capacitor like that, the same capacitor, and fill it with, a different material, but only half. So kappa here. And, so what is the new equivalent capacity? So if this is c 0, then what is the new one? This is c 0.

What is the new capacitance? So we can look, think this problem is like this. So we only feel the half of it, not the full part, but the half. So the, like, the amount that we fill, looks like this. So, like, is it?

So so this part is connected with the right side like that. So this one is connected with this is connected with another plate like this, but now this is empty. And these are connected. Okay. So let's find out this, c 1 and, c 2.

So at the end, the equivalent is, c 1 plus c 2 since they are in parallel. So but what is, what is c 1 and what is c 2? So c 0 is epsilon 0 a over d. So a is the area of the plate. Let me just sketch like that.

So this is the area of the plate and this is the distance. And so this is c 0. So what about c 1? And c 1 is epsilon 0 times kappa since there's a dielectric constant. And then it's going to be the area is divided into 2, a b.

And, so that's going to be kappaepsilon0a divided by 2 d. Like that. So this is kappa by 2 c 0. So this is c 1. And what about c 2?

C 2 is epsilon0a by 2 by d, which is equal to c 0 divided by 2. So at the end, we are going to find this expression. So c and then by 2+1 times c 0 is our s no. Is it 1 over 2? 1 over 2.

So it's going to be kappa plus 1 by 2 c 0. Hold on. And and then let me just, make a very similar one to this. Imagine we fill it with along here but filled with another material. So another similar example to this is, we have the this capacitor, and we fill it with 2 different materials.

And 1 is copper 1, like that to have like this. So we fill it with copper 1, and we fill it the other one with copper 2. So this is copper 1 and copper 2. So now what is the equivalent, capacitance? So, again, so this is c 0.

C 0 is epsilon 0 a by t. So now here, this is this picture is actually this one where this is kappa 1, and this is electrics. And, so this will let me call the c one and c two. So c prime will be c one times c two divided by c one plus c two. So let's figure out what c one is.

So c one is kappa 1 times epsilon 0. So if I should also make sure that this is this is just a half. So epsilon 0 times the area divided by d by 2. It's going to be 2, kappa 1, c 0. So this is c 1.

And similarly, c 2 will be 2 kappa 2 c 0. And at the end, we'll get so it's going to be 2 times or 4 times kappa 1 times kappa 2 c 0 squared divided by c 1+c2. So 2c0parenthesiskappa1pluscapachere. So this is our new capacitance. So kappa 2 here is 1.

So whatever we have here so that c prime will be 4 times kappa 1 times 1 c 0 squared divided by 2c0andkappa1plus1. Well, we can cancel out the similar terms. So similarly, also, I can cancel out this one, that one, that one with this one, and I get 2 here. Similarly, 2 kappa 1c0 divided by kappa 1 plus 1.


And we cannot declare it JB's or to declare it JK should. So what is the equivalent capacity? Capacity. Yes. So first of all hello?

Hello? Hello? What we see here is these are all hello? So this part, these are in series. So then these are in series.

This is 1 over c 1 plus 1 over c 1 plus 1 over c 1, and you reverse it, and you get c 1 divided by 3. And c 1 is given as 6.9 micro, carat. So c 1 by 3 is 6.9 divided by 3, and that's 2.3 microcarat. So, next. So what we have is set of these.

So this part is 2.3. So this is this guy, which is, 4.62.3. So this is the point c and d. So these are in parallel. That means 2.3 times 4.6, and that's going to give you 6.9 So here, again, 6.9.

So these are the points c and d. So this part will be again so this part will be, again, 2.3 microfarad. And with this one, again, it's going to give you another 6.9 Markov Herat. And at the end, we get this 1, this 1, and that 1, which is 6.96.9, 6.9, and we get 2.3 microfarad at the end between point a and e. So what is the charge here?

Q. What is the charge here? And charge there. A and b will have okay. And b a b potential is 4 24.

So the next step here will be this 1, this 1, and that 1. The another step was this 1. So instead of this, we will have this. So we need to go back up to this step in order to calculate the charge. What's the charge here?

So q total here is c times the potential difference. So 2.3 times 420, And that is micro. To to to 966 microcolon. So if you go one step back here, what are the charges here? On the cute panel?

It's the I know. 966 microcolon. 966 microcolon. 966 microcolon. K.

So if you go back, 1 step. 6996. But what about the charge here? So this is, 4.64.6 micro path, and this is 2.3 micro current. So what is the charge here?

Right. So this one so the total charge here So the way that we write, if I call this q 1 and q 2 so q 1 is, so if I call this point, let's say, x and y, so q one has 8 times, and q two will have 2.3 times b x 1. So if you take the ratio, q 1 by q 2 is 2. And total q, So 9 and 66 microcolon is q 1 plus q 2, and that will give you 3q2. So q2 will be, 2 no.

Divide by 3. 322 microcoulomb, and q one is, 644 microcoulomb. Okay. So we've done this. And what about BCD potential?

So that's the last question. So let's call this this is 4.6. This is 4.6. 4.6, and this one is 2.3 microfarad. Okay?

So in this case, if I know the potential within these two points of So what is DCD potential? So I know this one, x and y. So this is the x y potential. I know the x y. So from here, for example, the charge.

So q one is equal to 4.6 times d x y. Q one 644 divided by 4.6 is vxy. 140. 140 volts is this volt. So this is 140 volts.

So this means so if I just take this moment. Okay. So this one from here, see if you can have one here. And I chose a video Tissue. I'm gonna wait.

So this is 4.6. And, and this one, for this x and y point. So this is 6.9, and this one is another 6.9, 6.9, and 6.9. So these two points are c and d. So potential of vxy is equal to vxc+cd+ vdy.

Right? And since these are all same capacity, so these are all equal to each other. Right? V x c is equal to v c d is equal to v y d. Why is that?

Because they have the same capacity. So you can divide it by 3. So v x y is equal to 3 times vcd. In this case, VCD will be 140 divided by 3 because the capacities are the same. So c are the same So here so, so vxy is equal to folks say loud say it's out there a little quick.

I'm sure it's. Yeah. I mean, system inject. So we have initially this 1. So this is let's call c 0, and this has a displacement of d.

So c 0 is epsilon 0 a divided by d. Okay. And this one, when we put a material in between or metal in between. And so here, this is d minus a divided by 2. And here, d minus a divided by 2.

So here, the capacitance here is is c one epsilon 0 a d minus a divided by 2. It comes up here. Again, this is equal to c 2 here. So, so in series, arrangement, this is what we get. So it's going to be c 1 squared divided by 2 c 1.

So that's going to be c 1 divided by 2, And c 1 is this value. So c 1 by 2 is, epsilon 0 a 2 a divided by d minus a and 1 over 2 here. So epsilon 0 a d minus a. Express the capacitance as a multiple of capacitance 0 when the metal slab is not present among many others. Discuss what happens to the capacitance in the limits of a goes to 0 and a goes to d.

So the unit couple's thermos bone, unit couple's star statermutable. So discuss what happens when a goes to 0. So when a goes to 0, the new capacitance, c one prime, goes to c zero dot. Unit. J separation.

So if a goes to d, so that's going to be so it's a limiting problem. Right? So it's going to be epsilon 0 a d minus a. So as as this goes to d, so this goes to infinity. Switch to your moments, and then let me just check it.

So this is the point a, and this is point b. So if I call this point c so what is v a c? So it is the capacitance here. So if I call this 6 microfarads, so the AC is equal to the charge of q a c, you know, whatever that is. So q one divided by c one.

That's it. So this is let's call this c one. So we are going to do the same thing here. V a d. So v a d is also let's call this q2 divided by c2.

So let's call this q2, and this is c2. So so we need to find the charge. And you clear. K. Yeah.

What else do I have to do with this? So what is the charge here? So what is the total charge? So total charge is, so v a b times c equivalent of this or c a d. And so this is given as 210 with the CAB with the equivalent potassium It is on.

Q e j. It's not j. It's the dot you see me b a c then. Q 1 by c 1 420 divided by 6 months or 70 volts. Yeah.

Yeah. And choose on both. So review here. What is the potential difference across each capacitor after the switch is closed? How much charge flow through the switch when it was closed?

On. The. Which outer outer which which outer outer which is on. Them. Altus Optus Microphone.

And, Shuvatandash, Altice Optus Microcolon. Restony, Altice Optus initial. And it say so you saw the airline 5050. 30. 30.

30. 30. 30. 30. 30.

30. 30. 30. Initially, switch off to the middle initial. And



So the capacitor that we take care of the we're checking there. So first of all, so this was, so for now, So, we will say that up to now up to now, we will be we are talking about, electrostatic situations where things are in, let's say, equilibrium, and the charges have stopped moving, let's say. And then I'm gonna put in quote and quote moving. And, so what we mean by that, you know, when we are dealing with electrostatic, you know, we have an object. We, let's say, a sphere with a charge queue.

And then how that charge is, distributed there is, you know, we pass that. We we we wait for it, and then we wait for the charges to come to equilibrium, and then we do our calculations afterwards. So that's what we are doing. And, so but now, from now on, we will be talking about when the charges are in motion. Charges are being, let's say, moved by, let's say, external electric field.

And, So, before going further to describe what a current is, so what's happening let's say, what is the situation in, metal let's say, in a metal and, where in a metal at At equilibrium. Okay. So when we look into a metal, for example, so there are electrons, Let's say, so for a metal surface, there are some electrons. And then we we say that these are, like, free electrons. And what they are doing is, basically, if we zoom in here, for example, the electrons are in motion actually like this.

So electrons are intact. Electrons are in motion, And they are, they are maybe, like, going in one direction, and then there's some type of collision. And they go back to another, and then they go back here. So at each points here, at each corner, there will be some type of, like, collision with other electrons or with other atoms. So that's what's happening, when an electron is, is in a metal.

So it's it's doing this type of, like, motion, and then we call this Brownian motion, but we we don't wanna deal into this. But the that's what's happening, and then this is the picture for electrostatic situation. So this happens whenever there's a charge in a metal, they are vibrating, and then they are, doing all sort of, like, collisions. And and that collision so on average so on average, electrons, seem to be, let's say, motionless. So when we take an average of those, there's no no net drift or motion in any direction.

So these are all random motion here. Random. This type of motions are random motion, and the electrons are experiencing that type of random motion always. And, So, so there is no, like, an average, displacement. On average, there's no displacement of the electron.

Now there is no motion, and that's what we call electrostatic. So this is the picture of electrostatic. And once we apply, let's say, an electric field to an electron doing type of, that type of motion like, you know, this type of motion. And then let's say we apply an electric field like this. So if we apply an electric field to this electron, so what's going to happen is that electron will still have a random motion, but it will drift towards left.

So it will drift like because there's a force acting on the electron in that direction. So there will be a random motion plus and then drift due to external force. So that speed of the electron, that is going from left to right or right to left in this picture. So the electron is basically if you look at, the the electron will have some type of velocity, which we will call a drift velocity due to this external force. And that drift velocity is in the order of millimeter per second.

It's a very, very slow process. And what we should say, for example, even if so the electrons are experiencing some collisions here. So, for example, at each step from here to here, the velocity the velocity of the electrons velocity of the electrons are on the order of 10 to the 6 meter per second, but overall, their drift velocity is very small, so millimeter per second. Electrostatic Alright. So, so it's a quite small velocity, this drift velocity.

And, and that's what, well, there are more collisions actually when you are forcing something to to move. So, we are going to, now describe so if you put, for example, the electrons in metals, let's say, either constraint field or in a constraint, let's say, area or volume like this. And then if they apply an electric field like this, then they will feel a force like that, each of them, this type of force, and they will move. So they will, so let's say these electrons Well, sub clicks. So those are the electrodes that move, and So so this is the later part, and this is the initial part.

So what we, express this type of motion with a new concept that we are going to say that, okay. These type of motions so let's say this many of electrons has passed through this area in certain time. So the the the charges moved at certain time in a certain time, let's say. So this thing is called current, which is equal to the amount of charge divided by the amount of time. Well, that's basically the what we call current, and that's the definition.

So the if there are 4 charges moved from here to here at, let's say, certain amount of time, so if you take the ratio of those charges with respect to time, that is a current. So how is that related, in terms of so what we call, what's the unit for charge that is, coulomb divided by time. So coulomb per time is what we call ampere, and this is equal to a. So now this is the first time that we are seeing this thing, which is an SI unit. You know, there are 7 SI units.

3 of them, we we have seen in physics 1, kilogram meter second, and we are still using them. And the next one that we see now here is ampere, which is related to charge, which is column per second. And, Alright. So for example, Okay. So, so this is the the the the the main formula.

And, so let me write this here. So the main formula is I equals charge, the amount of charge divided by the amount of time. So if they move from here to here within delta t, so the amount of charges here will be will be like 4 electrons divided by that amount of time, let's say, let me just say, like, 1 nanosecond. But 1 nanosecond, so that's going to give us some type of current. Right?

So for example, so what is the charge of the electron? Well, let's say if 4 electron, 4 electron moves in 1 nanosecond, what is the current? So the current will be I will be equal to the the charge to our by time. And that if there are 4 electrons, for example, 4 times, what is the charge of the electron? 1.6 times 10 to the minus 19 coulomb divided by 1 nanosecond, 1 times 10 to the minus 9 second.

So that's going to give you, in the 6.4 times 10 to minus 10 ampere. So it's a small you know, very small value. In our daily life, we deal with milliampere most of the time. So in our daily life, most of the time, the the currents are in, in terms of, like, milliampere, units. And, so for example, and 1 ampere is a big, current.

So for example, if you wanna I think there are there's only 50 milliampere is enough to stop the heart. Alright. So, we'll go go into the the the values of this and, like, how these make sense later, but let's just, describe the current in more sensible, way. And, so imagine so for example, so in reality, the electrons are moving towards left in reality. But in, convention, let's say so convention, What we say that if an electron is moving to left, that means a positive ion or positive charge are moving towards right.

So that's what we say. So there are no positive charges moving in electricity. Only electrons are moving. But, we always call this to be a positive. And and then and then we will always say that so these are the charges, the positive charges under the electric field like this are going to feel a force, which is q times e, which is the the force and the electric field will be in the same direction.

So commercial means, you know, have it. So this is our definition on how we are dealing. And and and, so this is equivalent to left and right are the equivalent, and then we will we will not talk about elect electrons. Then conversion should So so we say that the the direction of the current directional current is the direction of positive charges. You know, how would a positive charge move?

Okay. So in our convention, so this is these 2 are equal to each other. But, if there is, for example, a situation like this so imagine there is a situation, for example. Imagine that there are, like, let's say, 3 negative charges. Let's let's make it, 3.

And, and then 2 positive charges have moved, for example, in in in a direction that the positive charges, move towards right and then and then the negative charges move towards left, like that. So and then imagine this is we are looking into some sectional area and then try to count, you know, how many charges have passed in that cross sectional area. So so this is the cross sectional area that any charges have passed through, let's say. And then that means there are 4 negative charge, and then there are 2 positive charge. And then if you wanna calculate the current, that will be the the 6, charges have passed.

So 4 negative, 2 positive. So, maybe I can so the total current at have passed will be 4 electrons plus 2 positive charges, divided by some time, and then that will be, like, 6 charges multiplied by time. So that increases actually the the the amount of, the current. Okay. So, let's continue with the, formal definition of the charge.

And, so let's describe it with so we're going to from now on, I'm gonna just use the positive charges. So imagine there is some type of wire, a cylindrical wire, and and then we are counting for the total charges. So what we are doing is the so in this volume, the number of charges that I need to calculate in order to calculate the current. So here, the total charge divided by the time is what I need to find out. So in this volume, there are the the number of charges, have displaced.

So let's say so at a later time, the amount of charges have moved from here. The total charge have moved from here to here like this. So the same amount of charges. So what I'm after is try to find the total amount of charge. So the fundamental, unit for charge is the electron charge, which is 1.6 times 10 to the minus 19 coulombs.

So I'm gonna put it in my, pocket that this this value. What I need to find is, like, how many charges are there within that volume. Okay? So in this volume, number of charges so how can I find this? And, what I need to do is in this, let's say, this little bit of charge, Let me in this volume here.

So there's some type of, thickness here, delta x like this. And and then let's say, there's a cross sectional area a area a like this. So the the volume here, this delta v, which is the volume, is a times delta x. Okay. So that's the volume.

So what I need to do is, if I want to find out the number of charges, Number of charges will be equal to that volume, this delta v volume times some constant, some n, and this n is the, charge per volume. It's a constant for, let's say, for for copper, for example. So if you multiply these 2, then you will get the number of charges. And at the end, what I get is I equals, writing delta q by delta t, and q delta q is the amount of, the coulomb times the number of charges, times the number of charges divided by delta t. So that's what I'm trying to do.

And, so what is the number of charges? This this, this thing. So q a times n times delta v. So this is the number of charges. Delta v is, a times delta x divided by delta t.

So this thing is called some type of velocity, and this is called delta x by delta t is drift velocity. So here, the current is basically I is equal to q e times n times area times d drift. So this is a more fundamental, expression for current. So QE is, again, a constant. QE is a constant, which is 1.6 times 10 to the minus 19 coulomb, and n is also a constant and, which gives you number of charges, number of, charge per, or let's say charge density.

Charge density. So the amount of charge divided by the volume. So that will be a number for aluminum, another number for copper, another number for gold. So that changes from metal to metal. So this is the, the this is the the current is equal to that, and, and we see that that depends on the, the the area.

So if I wanna get rid of this area here and write I divided by the area here, which is equal to q a times, n times. So this is independent of the area, and what we call this one is j current density. So it's some type of, like, flux. So from here, again, so this j is equal to I divided by area and which will be some so what we have here is so we have a wire like this, and then there's some type of, like, current here, and there's some type of j, a value of j here as well. And why do we have these?

Because we have an electric field like this. So we have an electric field within the wire so that they migrate towards left to right. And that thing, that electric field or that current density, that j that j and I should be proportional to electric fields. So for example, if the electric field increases, these guys should increase as well. Right?

So that should be linearly proportional. So, so at the end, what we get is is j is equal to, some sigma times e, and this sigma is conductivity constant. So there's conductivity. So that depends on the material. And this whole thing, and this is basically the official version of current density.

So, okay. So this is our picture. For now, let's say, so from here to here, we we are applying an electric field within this. So j is equal to sigma times e. And, so what is e?

E is I can relate this thing as delta v is equal to e times doctor from our 3rd chapter. And and then since electric field is constant, you can take it out. And if there is some sort of, like, length l here, this is equal to minus e times l. Right? So I can write here, and then I'm gonna just write e times l, just drop the minus sign because I don't care about the potential difference.

So instead of e, I can write the the potential difference. So j is equal to sigma times e, which is equal to sigma times, delta v divided by l. Okay? And on the left hand side, this is equal to the current divided by the area. So if I take the sky and take the sky, then that is our relation between the the, and that's another Ohm's law that you would recognize here.

So then delta v equals, the current times l l times divided by area and then divided by 1 over rho, 1 over sigma. And then this thing is conductivity, so sigma is conductivity, and this is sigma. And we are going to write rho, which is equal to 1 over sigma, and we will call this resistivity constant. So if I rip replace 1 over sigma with rho, so this is rho, I l by a and then rho, so delta v. So this is, again, another versions of Ohm's law, which we call this guy to be resistance.

So potential difference is equal to current times are again also.


So I kinda so far, what we have, described is the current, and the current is basically charged per time. And, and this, j, we said a is equal to the current divided by the cross sectional area. And from here, from from here, what we have found that the the current is qe, the charge of the electron, times the number of number density of the the charges, times the area and times the drift velocity. So here, Qe is the constant, 1.6 times 10 to the minus 19 coulomb, and is charge density, and a is cross sectional area. Cross sectional area.

Then, Hariketediq, on and you say the next year. And, So, so what is v d, and that is the drift velocity. Okay? So we have established this, and we have also, used this one, j is equal to I divided by a, which is equal to sigma times e or, e divided by rho. So here, j is charge, or, current density.

And sigma is conductivity, and rho is resistivity. So from here, when we combine this so this is basically what we have said that, okay, this j being equal to sigma times e or e divided by rho, that is the definition of the Ohm's law. And the most famous definition of the Ohm's law that we describe is the the potential difference is equal to I times r and where r is equal to rho times l divided by a. So this is what we call resistance. Okay.

So here, the, in this table, the constants are given for resistivity constants, this rho. And the unit for rho is ohm times meter. So we're gonna come to the units later. But what we see in the metals is silver, copper, gold, and aluminum has the, the least amount of values. So here, we want what we want for resistance to be very small, and and these are in the order of 10 to the minus 8 here, which is a small number.

That's good, but it it changes, like, even though this is 10 to the minus 8 and then tungsten, which is 5 times this, and then you can make, for example, some bulb out of tungsten. And, if you make this resistance a little bit higher, that means you can hit the the metal. And then when the heated metal is, you know, not burned or damaged, you can it can give out some light. So here in the semiconductors, so there are a 3, classes here. 1 is conductors, metals, and alloys, and, and semiconductors, which is half conductor, half insulator.

And then those low, value for those, the resistivity values, have been dropped to 10 to the minus 5 to up to maybe 10 to the 3 or so. And the insulators, it's the number is 10 to the 14 and 10 10 to 16, 10 to the 11. It changes from material to material. But from here to here, that is, like, 10 to the, so the highest is 60. So 10 to the 24, the order of magnitude difference.

So you put partially. Right? So this is this is the resistance. So let's look into the the units as we always do. So what is the unit for this one?

We we're gonna call this volt, and then that's equal to ampere and times, and then we're gonna call this ohm. Right? And, so it's going to be the potential is equal to I and ohm. So I should write here volts and a, the ampere. So so the resistance the unit for resistance is ohm and which is equal to volt divided by ampere.

And, so if we look into here also So anytime if you see any volt divided by ampere, that is equal to, the ohm, and r is equal to rho times l divided by a. So the unit analysis for this one is ohm is equal to, let's say, rho and meter divided by meter square and which gives the unit for rho ohms times meter, which is the unit that is given here, ohms times meter. And another property of, the resistance that the the alloys are made, like when we are doing with lab, the the experiments or any circuits, we use some, like, resistors with color codes. And then if you look into the color codes, you can name them, and and then we're gonna do it in the laboratory. So I'm gonna leave that part later.

Okay. So let's do some, exercises to understand these concept a little bit better. So for example, a copper wire, copper copper wire has a diameter of 1.02 millimeters. And, and the the 3 electron charge density, which is the letter n, is given as 8.5 times 10 to 28, 1 divided by a meter cube. And, and the current that is going through through this copper wire is given as 1.67 ampere.

And the first question is, what is charge density j? So, so j is equal to I divided by the area, and that is 1.68 ampere divided by the area, which is so it it it has a diameter, so that means what is the area on this one is pi d by 2 square, right, like this. So it's going to be 314 and 0.5 1 square, and I wanna write this in terms of meters as well. So it's going to be 10 to the minus 6 meter square. Okay.

So ampere per meter square is the the the j the value for j, and, that thing is, 2.6. So this value is 2.6 times 10 to 6 ampere per meter square. Okay. And the next question is, what is the drift velocity? So calculate the drift velocity under these situations.

So what do we know about drift velocity? The current is equal to qe times n times area times the drift velocity. So all of them are given to us, right, except v d. So, just plug in the values, then bd is, equal to 1.67 divided by the charge, 1.6 times 10 to the minus 19 coulomb. I'm gonna write the unit's later, and this n.

So n is 8.5 times 10 to 28. We have continue and divide by the area, 314 times 0.51 squared times 10 to the minus 6. And if I wanna write the units here, so the units are so that's going to be ampere and divided by this guy, which is and divided by this one, which is 1 divided by meter cube, the unit for this one, and this is meter square. So let's look into the the units. So ampere and, meter squared, it cancels out here.

So meter comes up. Ampere, I can write this 1, what what ampere is equal to coulomb per second, top here, divided by coulomb and divided by 1 over meter, and that's going to give you meter per second, which is the unit for and we come up with a number which is so this value is point 15 millimeter per second or 1.5 times 10 to the minus 4 meter per second. So as, we have already discussed that this this value is small. And in one second, it goes like 1.5, 0 point, like, 15 millimeters. And so that's also, like, if you increase if you increase the current if you increase the current, you can increase the drift velocity, because these are all constant.

So that if you if you increase the the current, like, 10 times, this can be, like, millimeter per second, And it all depends how much of current you are applying, but it is in the order of millimeter per second, and then and then it's a small number. Okay. Alright. So we're gonna use, the for the rest of the the the the lecture, we're gonna use the Ohm's law and try to get a better understanding of, of the resistance and better understanding of what the potential is. So for example, another example is, so the area of the wire is given as 8.2 times 10 to the minus 7 meter square.

And, and l is 50 meters, and I is, again, the same number, 1.67 amp pair. And for copper, this is a copper. For copper, the raw value is 1.72 times 10 to the minus 8 ohms times meter. And, so for this situation, for example, we have a wire like this, and there's some type of l, length l, and some area here, a. And some rho is given, and the current is given.

So the current is going through on this wire. So what is the resistance? So the resistance is So r is equal to rho times l divided by area. So if you plug in the values here, so it's going to be 1.72 times 10 to the minus 7, 8, and then, times 50. The Wi Fi, 8.2 times 10 to the minus 7.

So here again, the the the units are, for this one, this is ohms times meter. This one is meter divided by meter squared. So that's gonna give us ohms. And at the end, what we get here is Yep. So what is the potential difference?

So 1.05. So 1.05 is ohms. So that is the resistance of this copper wire. And I'll send this, the shade. Alright.

So this is 1.05 ohms for the resistance of a 50 meters of copper cable. And, so the next question is so this is a. So what the b is what is the electric field inside? And, so there are more than one ways to do this, but, so you can write e is equal to j divided by sigma or rho times j. So you can write it this way, or you can write e is equal to the potential difference divided by l.

So these 2 will give you the same number. And what do we have? We have a current and we have, so we have, do we have potential difference? No. I cannot use it.

And, maybe I'll be able to use since I know the current, I know j, And row times j, I can find out what e is. So here again so the value is 1.72 times 10 to the minus 8, and j j is the current divided by the the area. 8.2 times 10 to the minus 7 meter square. And this thing is going to give us an electric value of, 0.035. 35.

Okay. So what is the unit for electric field? Electric arm eliminated? Another one? So you can write this thing as also point post 35 volt per meter.

Okay? And next question is, so what is the then, the potential difference? So that's going to be, e times l, or I times r. So you can always, calculate that. And, so this will give you 1.75 volts.

So that means so if you have a potential of here at an initial point, 1.75 volts, So here, you will have 0 volts. Or if you have, let's say, 51.75 volts here, then you will have 50 volts there. So the potential difference is going to be accounted for the, for the length of the wire. Okay. So next thing about resistivity of metals is that, resistance is a function of temperature.

Resistance changes with temperature. Yeah. Why is that? So we we, so we use this formula for the resistance. So if you know resistance so, okay.

So how does it look like is if you have a resistance r with respect to temperature. So it sort of looks like this. Okay. It increases linearly with time with temperature. So, so if you know, for example, let's say let's say at t 0, this has a value of r 0, and then at t, this has a value of r o t.

So that r o t can be given as r zero plus so it's a linear function. It's a math problem. Right? And and r zero, can be written as something like this. So one plus alpha times t minus t zero.

And you can also say that this one, which is r of t minus r zero equals, r 0. Okay? Then I can write this thing as anyway, so let me just, make it like so this delta r divided by delta t time, is going to give you the slope of this one here. And, oh, this is delta r and delta t here. So you can always find out, in this way.

So here, alpha is, is a constant. So alpha, is basically, so with this formula, what do what do you think the unit for alpha is? Alpha formula? So it's going to be one of our Celsius or one of our Kelvin like that. And then alpha is, for example, let's say, 0.0039, for some material.

So, let's just make up a, example. So this is within the example like this. So if, for example, the resistance at 25 Celsius, is going to be, let's say, 1.05 ohms. So what's the resistance at, 0 Celsius, 100 Celsius, and like that. Okay.

So using the formula here, so just plug in the value. Right? So r o 100 will be, r 0, which is, 1.05, 1 +ussalphah00039 times the temperature difference. So it's 100 minus 25. Okay?

So that's gonna give you a value of, you 1 point 38 ohms. So if you plug in, for example, so for 0 Celsius, right, for 0 Celsius, 0 here, everything is the same. It's going to be 0 minus 25, which will give you a negative value, which will bring down the, resistance value a little bit, and that's going to be 0 point 97 ohms. So for example, if I plug this into a graph so at 0 Celsius, it's going to be at this resistance is 0.97 at a 100, and that's going to be 1.38. Okay.

So what happens if you cool RAM when you get rid of the resistance? So resistance. If we cool it way down, let's say. Choke. So what's going to happen so if we use the correct temperature scale, which is Kelvin, So nothing ever reached to 0 Kelvin, but let's say so this is the trend here.

So this is the resistance, and it goes down like this. At certain temperature, it goes down to 0 immediately like this. So this there there will be some TC and some critical, temperature, and this is the superconductivity temperature. So here, this region is called superconducting. And we use it in our daily life in MR machines, MRI machines.

So it goes on forever forever. So if for example, if there's a loop in this and then you are making a current, and then you can create a magnetic field magnetic field like this, and and, and then for free. So it's a quantum state or a quantum phenomenon. Quantum physics, let's say. Yeah.

I'm Shranki Seamus. You sick. So we have t c of 180 Kelvin of, some materials. And these materials are really hard to do. So it's, like, quite expensive.

Still expensive to create these materials. And so that's that's how the thing is, going to evolve, actually, like us. So we're not gonna talk about superconductivity, but later, we're gonna talk about electromagnetic fields and how to create the magnets magnetic fields with the current. And if you wanna do it efficiently, you have to use superconducting things here. Okay.

So in my last 5 minutes, I'm gonna just, mention about our last concept of the chapter, which is ENAV, electromotor force Electromotor force. EMF. Electromotor cavity. So what is EMF? EMF, is something that makes current flow.

So it's basically EMF is some voltage difference. And what are the materials that, that does this, is the the batteries, for example. So EMF, the batteries are sources of EMF. So battery, for example so let's say this is EMF, like, electromotor force in a in a, a substance that makes the current flow. So it's just that motor likes.

A motor takes the current from one side to another. And, for example so here, let's say the current is flowing this way. So it's making, positive charges from here to and then giving it a, a push towards the left hand side. And this is basically what we, write it as like this. So this is basically a battery.

And if the current is coming in like this and, the the current is pushed like this, So the action of EMF is happening within here. And, EMF is an unfortunate name, actually. So the unit for EMF is EMF unit is volts. So let's write it down. And, so battery is a source of EMF, and then sometimes, we show this the the potential difference between these 2 with a surelye, this letter, which is the EMF of the battery.

Okay. So an ideal battery has no internal resistance, but in real life, in reality, every battery has internal resistance. So for example, if you take a battery, double a battery, let's say, The positive side and negative side, double a battery here. So it has so we, so this is basically equivalent to something like this. So it is the point a here and point b here.

That's point b. That's point a. So EMF is, the voltage of the the pure battery, and this little r is the internal resistance. So and, hopefully, after the break by ramp, we will start with experiments for, for the computer guys. And in one of those experiments, we will be able to measure the internal resistance of a battery or the EMF or the the battery.

But here, when they say that the the potential is 1.5 volts, that doesn't necessarily mean, this epsilon here, this e and f. So it's roughly within the order of 1.5, but it's not exactly the same. Anyways, so let's just take this battery and connect it with some resistance like this. So this is capital r, this is little r, and then I'm gonna call the the voltage of this is epsilon. And and then let's just give some letters to it.

I'm gonna call this b, and I'm going to call this a here, this point a. So any wire that is a pure wire like this, so wires do not have resistance. So so this is the ideal case as well. But we know any copper wire. So, for example, for copper wire, so this is equal to actually something like this, this little resistance and a wire like this.

So you can always put a little resistance or internal resistance with an extra extra, element there. Yeah. Normal resistance. So these do not have so no resistance here. So any resistance will be get into either this little r or this capital r here.

Okay. And, so here, I can write, for example, if this is point a, this is point a, point a, and point a. So I'm gonna just say this is point a as well, And then we still write this as, so this will have the the the same potential step because there is no resistance in it. Okay? And then if this is point b and there is point b, there is point b like that, so, again, because there's no resistance, then I can write the same letter as well.

So it's actually that means it's an equipotential or it's the the same potential, here as well. And, so here, what I can write this thing as, so little r like this. And, maybe let me just okay. So for example, if I do a similar version of this one, there's a little r, capital r, and and this has some epsilon, and a current is going in this direction. So if I wanna plot the potential with respect to some time some length here.

So I'm gonna call this point b here, b b b, and then this point a, and then that will be point c here because that will be diff that will be different. So if I start from b and then, so if I start from b, for example, here, then I will have 0 volts. So as soon as I jump up to a, the potential will be, like, jumping up like this. So from b to a, like that. So from b to a, the the potential value has jumped up to epsilon from here to here.

And then after going, so there's a constant value here up to, like, c point. Okay? And then at the end, so maybe up to 8, let's say. So this is a a a goes like that. And then once you cross to c, it's gonna drop down like this.

K? That's the c. And then you you're gonna keep continuing, and then at the end, you're gonna end up with the capital r, which is the point b here. So these are all point c here, and at the end, this is point b. So what we get here from this one is this is the epsilon here, and there's a potential drop and potential drop from here to here.

So this potential drop will be like I times little r, and there will be I times capital r potential drop. So any potential rise, the total potential rise will be equal to total potential decrease. So, so we can we can write that. So the the potential increase from, let's say, from b to a, and then like that, epsilon should be equal to the potential decrease I little r and I capital r. So from the the current, we can find out the current with this one.

Alright. So for example, if epsilon is 12 volts, little r is 2 ohms, and capital r is 4 ohms. Right? So the current will be 12 divided by 2 +4, which is 2 ampere. Okay.

So, we're gonna stop here and I'll continue, Friday. And and I think that's pretty much what I wanna say about this. This is the introductory part, and then probably you'll be most, you know, responsible for this one for for the midterm.



So what is power? And, and so power is power and energy. So what's the definition of power? Power is energy per time, and the unit for that one is watt is equal to joule per second from physics 1. And in so we can calculate what, power is.

So power is energy per time. So what was energy? So energy is, potential or, like, just changing the potential energy. And here, this is q times delta v. And, we know that so this is, this is the the total energy for a charge q if it moves from one location to another and which has the delta v potential difference, that is the energy change, within the system.

But we are after, let's say, power. The definition of power is energy per time. So if we divide by, let's say, delta t here or delta t there, or we can just write t for the time being. And q by t as a definition, we call this one as current I. So the power then equal to I times the potential difference.

Since we know that the Ohm's law is I times r, I can write versions of power. So power is I times. So instead of delta v, I can write I squared times r. Right? And I can write instead of I, I can write the potential difference.

So it's going to be delta r, delta v squared divided by r. And do we have anything left? So and then the other one is I times delta v. So these are all versions of power and this is watt. So when you look into your electric bill, it says, kilowatt times hour.

So this is basically the energy that we are paying for. So watt is basically the joule per second, and, watt times second will be equal to joules. So this is the electric bill that we are paying. So, our technical name for this is, for the electric bill and electric. So kilowatt hour is, so 10,000 watt times, 36 100 seconds.

So it's going to be watt times second, and that's going to be a joule. Right? It's going to be 3.6. So 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. So times 10 to the 6 joules is 1 kilowatt hour.

So instead of writing, in in terms of the expansion, So the power law here instead of writing 10 to the 6 or 3.6, we just write kilowatt hour. Okay. So that's the definition. And, so so in our for example, let's say, in our example, we had the battery, and then which is going with 2 ampere and epsilon is 2 12 volts 12 volts. And this little r this little r and bigger r.

So here, for example, so this one and this part is this part is power generator. So itself, it is a power or energy generator. So it is generating energy, and this part will be the the ones that are consuming the power or energy. So these parts are power or energy consumer. So, so here, on the left hand side, the the power that, the this resistance is consuming.

So we had in our previous exam, we gave this to be 2, 4 ohms and this one, 2 ohms. And let's see here, I square times r is going to give us, 4. So the 2 is the the ampere value. So it's going to be 4 times 4. So it's going to be 16 watts that so this consuming, and this guy is consuming 8 watts.

And this guy so if we say these are consuming like, we give them like a negative sign, and this guy is producing like, let's say so this is I times little r square, I I square little r. And, on the left hand side will be the power of the the, of this 12 volts. And that's going to be, 2 times that. So that's going to be 24 volts watts. So if we add them up, it's going to be 0.

Again, this is the part that is generating power and the left hand part will be the ones that are consuming power. And most of the time, it's just using one of them will be good enough for us. We don't care whether it's generator or consumer, but this, circuit is having a power of 24 watts. Okay. So if we run, for example for example, if, we run an oven of, let's say, at 240 watts volts, sorry, with a current of 20 ampere, for 4 hours.

Right? So what is the power consumed or and then and the power is I times delta v. And just plugging those two values, 24 and, like, 20 here, that's going to be 4.8, watts. So in in terms of, the energy here so what is the energy? So the energy is, so power times the amount of time that it runs.

So, so that's going to be propane 8. I should write kilowatts here. Kilowatts times, another 4 hours. Okay. So that's going to be, somewhere, like, 19.2, 19.2 kilowatt hour.

So this is our total energy that we run for this operation. And, so let's say, so, let's just check out, for example, what is the, power? Okay. So for the worst case scenario, let's just take, it's 2.22, lira. I'm not sure whether that's the, exact number that we are.

So okay. 2.2. So if we say, for example, what is the amount of bills? Like, how many Turkish liras? How much?

For this one, so for 1 kilowatt hour, that is 2.2 Turkish lira. And for this type of action, the the energy is so that's going to be, you know, roughly, 40 liters. Oh, that sounds about if I'm not mistaken. Yeah. Yeah.

So that's that's sounds about right. Okay. So this is, like, 4 deliras. So, imagine, for example, if you are running it for every day, so if if you cook for every day, for example, cook every day. So for this just action, let's say, 40 times 30, So that's going to be your monthly cost of cost of oh, Okay.

So that's, then becoming much more, expensive. Okay. So that that goes into your, expenditures. And, for example, if you are running, for example, though, we, we call this, like, OOFO. Right?

This type of resistance that you heat up. So it's like thermal heating. So these machines consumes a lot. I mean, this the the the power of this one, is roughly about, like, 2, kilowatt. And for example, like, for heating, imagine you're using it for every day.

Let's say, for each day, you use it for, let's say, 6 hours for each day, then, and then for a month, like, then that's going to be, times 30, like, 180 hours. So if you, what is the energy for this one? It's up to 2 kilowatt times 180 hours. So that's going to be 36 100, kilowatt hour. So this thing is 2.2 Turkish lira, and then this is roughly, again, somewhere around, like, 8,000 Turkish lira.

Somewhere around. Okay. And, so that's, quite expensive. That is very expensive to heat with these, with these heaters. And and then maybe we don't use it 6 hours.

Maybe you're we are using it, like, couple of hours. But even then, if you divide it by, like, half, that's going to be 4,000 for a month if you're using it every day. Yeah. Yeah. And look at dash dash, so this is the end of the chapter of 2025.

So this is end of chapter of, almost law and stuff. And, so now, let's, switch gears and also start with, a new subject which is called DC circuits. Okay. Alright. So, so what did we do so far?

So what do we know so far? So we know that, for example, if a current is running through a wire like this. So if if the current is going through a wire, then so for example, this is the wire, and there's an electric field within the wire. And the electric field direction, shows, the direction of, the the flow of the positive positive charges. Right?

So positive the charges move at this, and we know that there's a potential difference between these two points. And, and the potential difference is, so this thing. So a wire. So let me just, start with this wire. So there's a wire here like this.

And this wire, we're gonna take this, and then we said that, okay, this is basically a resistance itself. So it's a resistance like this. And, so it starts from here, ends here. So that r is, there's a current coming in so that the potential difference for this wire is going to be I times r. And in reality, so we say, so for a copper wire, for example, copper wire, this type of wire, we sort of say that okay.

This is equivalent to a a single, let's say, line and a little r like this. So this r is equal to row times l divided by area. Right? This is the area. This is l.

And this this can be represented as like this. So most of the most of the case of the in reality in reality, this is equal to, the the wiring is equal to, a wire which has no so this part has no resistance. But the only part of r is can be represented a little resistance on a wire like this. But here, this is the resistance that is equal to this. But in we in in in practical terms, so we say in, practic sorry.

Like, in ours, let's say, in our, physics class lectures. So the wires r is equal to 0. So any wire that has, some type of, like, length and, area is equivalent to either this one or equal equal to this r, and this r is much smaller than we sort of like neglect that. So whenever we put a wire from now on, this doesn't have any resistance. So the resistance for this one is 0.

And, so if the resistance is 0, that means, for this wire, we take the wire And at each point, if the the potential here is v a, then this will be v a, this will be v a, this will be v a, no matter what. And if there's a current coming, through on this, and then they will have an equipotential values of VA. So VA's are the, all the potentials all the potentials are equal to each other. Okay. And Okay.

So, the there's a current going through here, and then we say that, that the potentials are the same. And, and that's how we envision this. Okay. And the only resistance that we will have will be shown in this. And so now we're gonna do the the the r circuits.

And let's remind ourselves, so we can combine them with a positive and a okay. Let's say, if you take an r one and, let's say, put another resistance onto its parts. And then this will be some type of, let's say, r equivalent. Okay. So this is called a serious connection.

So for this one, the current is coming through on both of them. So what we do is that I'm gonna take this point a. This is point b, for example, a and b. So for for this one, and this is still having the same decurrent. So v a b, the potential difference between these two points is equal to I times r equivalent and which is similarly so here, what I'm going to say that, okay, v a c plus v c b is going to be equal to v a b.

And what is v a c? This is the current times r one and plus I times r 2. So this thing should be equal to that. So we say that I r one plus I r two, it will be equal to I r equivalent. So r equivalent of any 2 resistance, which is connected connected in series will be additional dots.

Right? So if we have bunch of them like and all of them 123 and n, the r equivalent will be we're we're gonna just end them up. And, similarly, if we, combine them with, like, parallel fashion. So parallel. Here, we're gonna take r one and we're gonna take r two and combine it with their, the same side, so to speak, like the higher potential.

And this will be equivalent to and are equivalent like this. Again, same point a b a b here are equivalent. So a current is coming in here and a current is coming in there. So, here what we say, okay, v a b is equal to I times r equivalent. And in this one, so the the the current has to be divided into 2 here because it has to flow on both.

So I'm gonna call this I one and this will be I 2. So in these ones, v a b will be equal to I times r one and similarly, I times r 2. Here. So those are the potentials. So we don't get anything that can be, shown here.

So so sorry. I 1 and I 2. But what we know from this node so here from this node. Node. So from this node, I is divided into 2.

So our main formula is this. So itotal will be equal to I 1+i2. So what is I 2? I'm going to write v a b divided by r one just using this formula plus vab divided by r two using this formula which is equal to I using this formula vab divided by r equivalent. And from this we get one over r equivalent is equal to 1 over r one plus one over r two.

And for r equivalent, if you have both of them, just 2 of them, this will be equal to r one times r two divided by r one plus r two. Okay. So so that is for also, let's just write if we have just bunch of them. Just n all them. 1, 2, n n.

So we just have to take the reciprocal. R equivalent will be 1 over r one plus 1 over r two plus 1 over r n and take the reverse, and that will be r r equivalent. Okay. And we'll be learning top plate. That's our touch Forget any, So, for a for example, for a resistance.

So we say this is going to be if a current is coming in here, I'm going to say this is the positive side which has a higher potential high potential. And this has a negative side, which has a lower potential. So remember our, you know, graph of this. So imagine, we have this thing here. So if this is epsilon and there's a current coming in here, there's r.

So what do we do? We say, okay. There's a higher potential increase here. And then there's a constant and then there's a decrease with the higher potential that goes to 0. So here, this part is I times r.

So this part has a higher potential and this part has a lower potential. And this part will be negative and positive. So positive and negative, this part will be like epsilon. And then for the rest of them part, this part will be positive and negative. The the way that the current runs has the higher potential.

So so let's just write that that the current enters, to the higher potential part of resistance. Positive. Yeah. Positive shaders. Now blue, honey shaded.

And then a couple of. And couple of. So in the capacitors, we have positive, positive, positive, positive here, and then negative, negative, negative, negative here. So this has a higher potential, and this has a low potential. Why is that?

Because if I put a positive charge here, it's gonna go like this. Right? So that means it's going like this, which is the direction of the electric field. And similarly, the direction of the electric field is like this. So the electric field is like a gravity.

So it's just a just shows where the potential is decreasing. Okay. So so having said this connection, again, what what is being parallel and what is being serious is, So if you have 2 entities, like, whether it's r or c or, like, 2 r's. Okay? So if if the current is coming in like this here, r 1 and r 2, let's say, I 2 and I 1.

So if I connect them here like that, right, so this has a positive side and positive side, they are connected like that. That means a parallel connection. Okay? And then what does serious mean? You just take a resistance and positive and negative like that.

The current is coming in. And then I put the negative side of the, r one with the positive side of r two. Right? So that that is the this type of connection here, this type of connection is called series connection. And, similarly, this is true for the capacitors and true for capacitors here as well.

R1, r2, r 3, r 4. So this is equivalent to actual, actually. Right? So how do we understand whether something is parallel or, a serious connection? So I should also emphasize that if these two things have to be in parallel, these parts should be also connected as well.

So if there is something else going on, then they are not parallel. So these sides also have to be this negative side, and negative side should be also connected to each other. Okay. So this part where we have, let's say, a line like this. Right?

So this is equivalent to, actually, this line can be represented as something like this. So I can write that line to be like this because this r one is connected to here and r two will be down back here. Similarly, r 4 and r 3 here. So we know that r one is parallel to r 2, which is series with art 3 parallel and r 4. So how do we make sure that we understand this?

Because now we can give letters. Right? So if I give letters here, a so if I wanna go to a point here, here, then I should call this another letter, which is this is a potential of a, v a potential that is v b potential, and then that will be a v c potential. But here, since it's the same wire here, they will all have a b potential. So that that is a b potential.

So from a to b and a to b, they would have a v a b potential, v a b potential. So what that means is this point a and b here will have the a b potential like that. So that way, r one and r two have the same potential, meaning that they are in parallel. Similarly, that's true for r 3 and r 4. And at the end, what we get, the equivalent of those.

Right? So, so what is the r equivalent for this? So r equivalent is equivalent of this these 2, which is r one times r two divided by r one plus r two and plus r 3r4 divided by r 3+r4. Okay. So that's our answer.

Oh, our equivalent for this case. Sometimes in the books, it says r a c. What is the equivalent resistance between these two points? Okay. Alright.

So, maybe, well, we can also, let's just analyze a simple circuit as well, and then we can move and let's give a break, and then we can move on to maybe, Okay. So in our simple circuit, we have an 18 volts of, battery, which is connected to 4 ohms, which is connected to the 3 ohms. These 2 are in parallel, 6 ohms like that, and connected to like this. Okay. So, so what is the r equivalent?

What is the current on each resistor? What is the power of the circuit, what is the power of each resistor. So let's do this. And, so we can also say, for example, I can give some letters. So this is a b c, for example.

So what is b a c? What is v b c? And also, like, variations or questions with that, we can come up with. Okay. So let's start with what is the r equivalent.

So it's rather simple. Right? So r equivalent is so these 2 guys are in parallel. So 3 ohm is parallel with 6 ohms. So that's going to be 3 times 6 divided by 3 time plus 6.

So that's going to be 2 ohms. And 2 ohms is going to be parallel with so this is 2 ohms with parallel with 4 ohms. So r equivalent will be 4 ohms plus 2 ohms, which is going to be 6 ohms. So we can find here that the current will be, in this case, the main current will be, delta v, the potential difference between our equivalent. So here, since the potential so the potential of VAC here, for example so what is the VAC potential?

It's just, you know, potential of the battery. There's nothing to, compute here. But the total potential is 18. Let me just write it down. Divide by 6.

So this is going to be 3 ampere. So so that's the main current. 3 ampere is coming in like that. So v AC is 18 volts because this is c. This is a.

Again, you can just, like, write it down without even having to calculate for r equivalent or, I, the current. So what is the current on each resistor? So I can, at this, step, I can, calculate for what is the power of the circuit. So if I know the the current that is going through the, the battery, so I times delta v is the power of the circuit. So that power is 18 times 3, which is 54 watts.

Okay? So that power of the circuit, total power. So you can also calculate the power for each resistor as well, which will give up 54 watts. And, so in order to calculate the power of each resistor, we have to find either the potential here or the current. So let's start with the current.

So 4 ohms, 3 ohms, and 6 ohms. Like that. So the current coming is 3 ohm pair, and 3 ohm pair have to be divided into 2. But we know that the potential will be the same here. So this is, b and c.

So b b c's are equal. So if I call this I one so I one times 3 should be equal to I 2 times 6. Right? And we know that I one and then I two will be equal to 3 ampere. So one of them should be 2.

So this guy is 2 ampere, and this guy is 1 ampere. So so this will be 1 ampere, and that is 2 ampere, and that is 3 ampere. So the power for this one will be I squared times r. Right? So power for the batteries are, sorry, 4 ohm, 6 ohm, and 3 ohm.

And the power is I squared times r. So 9 times oh, 4. Sorry. Now that's going to be 36 watts. So 1 square times 6.

So this is 6 watts. And 2 square, 4 times 3, that is 12 watts. So 36 plus 6 plus 12 should be equal to 54 watts as well. So these should be equal to each other always. Okay.

So, what is, for example, b b c? So we can if we plug in these values here, thus, we find this is going to be 6 volts. So here from here to here, that is 6 volts. And from here to here, there is also another sorry. This is 6 volts.

And from here to here, this is going to be 12 volts. So if you add them up, you better get the 12 volts of the battery. Okay. So, this is how we are going to analyze any circuit depending on the hardware detail and the the question is detailed. So I'm gonna stop here and give a break.

Das.



Okay. So, so imagine there are a couple of wires coming into a single point, and then it goes out like that. So there is a current coming in, let's say, coming in like that, and then this one is coming in. This is going out and going out like that. So general rule for a node so this is called a node node.

That means doom. So so in this one, the total, so at a node, let's say, at a node, incoming currents, Let's say total incoming currents should be equal to total outgoing currents. So we can say the total currents coming in should be equal to total current going out. So this is, the the first rule of the q shot. And in the next row, we have to describe a loop.

So this is a loop. So doing good. So it's basically starting from, let's say, point a, and then you come up to point a like that. So that is called dengue. So it's, loop.

So that is that can be in either direction. So this is the direction of the loop, not the direction of the current or so. But, the main idea for this one is, in a loop, the potential difference should be 0. In a loop in a loop, potential difference should be 0 Should be 0. So if you are going from a to a, that means, you know, the pot what is the meaning of the potential difference?

This is the final potential minus the initial potential. So if these points are the same, b a minus b a, that should be equal to 0. And, so it can be the loop can be either a so in a loop, you can go either, like, clockwise direction, like CW, or you can go, in the opposite direction, so which is this one. This is counterclockwise direction. So it doesn't really matter.

So this is CCW. So it doesn't really matter which direction you go. You will always end up with this zero potential difference. Okay. Alright.

So the sum of potential differences, around any loop should be equal to 0. Okay. We said that. So, before going further and analyzing our first circuit, let's, remind ourself the so we are dealing with DC circuit. So what does that mean?

So there's a direct current. And then in these DC circuits, the circuit elements are r resistors, epsilon like batteries, and c capacitors. So these are the circuit elements that, we will describe. So let's start with the rest. So these are the ones that that we will be using mostly.

Okay. So starting from the registers r and, so let me change this color to something more striking. Okay. This one. Alright.

So imagine, my loop direction is in this direction, and the current is coming in like this. So so so this is the current coming in like this. So it might the loop direction tells me tells what is final and what is initial. So for this case, for example, the loop direction so this is initial, and this point is final. So if I wanna look into the potential difference.

Right? So the potential difference for this case will be vf minusvi. Okay. But what we know so once we know the the current, so if the current is coming into a resistor, whatever the point that it enters has a higher potential, and this has a lower potential. So since the loop tells me and, maybe let me give another so since the loop tells me the direction of the, the potential difference.

Right? So what I'm going to say, so the f will be a v negative minus v positive here. So this thing should be a negative value. So in this case, what we are saying, this delta v will be I times r, but with a negative value. Okay.

So this is the first case. So let's just think about a next case where we reverse the direction of the loop. So take the same resistance. Okay. And now and then let's say the the loop, the the current is again like this.

And but now the loop direction is like that. So, again, this will be this point is initial that is final. And, so whatever the the current tells me, that is the it tells me the higher and the lower potentials. And the loop tells me, is this is the final point. This is the initial point.

So delta v will be equal to vf minus v initial. And in this case, what we have, v final, it has a higher potential minus a lower potential. So that's going to be a positive value. So in this case, delta v will be positive I times r. So we'll be using this when we are dealing with loops and the circuits and, and like that.

Okay. So these are the 2 scenarios that you can come up with, with a resistance. So there's no changing there's no point of changing the current here because that's going to be the the same thing here. So this is so in this case, I and loop I and loop are different. Opposite direction opposite.

That's it. So when whenever they are opposite, the potential difference will be positive delta v. So in this one, I and the loop are same direction. When they are in the same direction, the potential difference will be a will have a negative value. Okay.

And, next, let's discuss the the circuit element and another circuit element which is battery. So we take a battery. Let's say this is a short side, this is a long side, which means this is a negative part, this supposed part, and this has an epsilon value. And now the loop, let's say, is in this direction. So what the loop tells me, this is going to be delta v v f minus v initial.

So this is the f point. This is the initial point. So that is a plus minus v minus, which is a positive value. So in this case, delta v. So here, delta v is a positive epsilon quantity.

So it doesn't really matter whether the current is coming in and out like this. So it doesn't really matter. So it's it can be either in this direction current, either in that direction. It doesn't change the the result. So the whenever the loop enters from the negative part of the battery, the potential difference should be a positive value.

Okay. So our next case will be the opposite direction of the battery. Again, it doesn't really matter. So I'm gonna keep it like this. Minus positive.

And, so the current doesn't matter whether it goes in like this or it goes in or out. It doesn't matter. And this has an epsilon value. And now the loop is in the opposite direction like this, which is f and I. And delta v now is v f minus vi, which is v minus minus v positive, which is a negative quantity itself.

So delta v will be negative epsilon. So whenever the loop enters from the positive side, then the potential change will be a negative quantity. So delta v will be minus epsilon here. And when the loop enters from the negative side, delta v should be a positive. So which means that there's a potential gain here when you enter from the negative side.

But when you enter from the positive side, there's a potential loss. So that's why we have a negative sign here. And what about the the, let's say, the capacitors? So the capacitors is also we have to know which side is positive, and we have to know which side is negative. It looks it it is like, actually, let's say.

So, so let's call this, potential difference here is q divided by c. And, so if your loop is like this. So it's going to be v minus minus v positive, which is a negative quantity and that will give you a negative minus q times c will be your delta v. And, similarly, we have the same capacitor. And now we are entering from the negative side in our loop.

So q by c is your potential difference, but let's just see whether it's a positive or negative. It all depends on your direction of the loop. So this is the final location. That's the initial location, and your delta v now is v f minus v initial, v positive minus v negative, which is a positive quantity. So in this case, delta v will be plus q by c.

Okay. Alright. So that is our result. And then let's just, do an example, and I'm gonna let you go for today. So let's do an a basic example.

Maybe let's do 2 examples. So, you know, first example is use this resistance, this battery, another resistance here, another resistance, and another battery here like that, and another resistance. This is 7 ohms. This is 12 volts. This is 4 volts.

4 ohm, 3 ohm, and this is 2 ohm. Alright. Maybe straightforward on what to do, but let's, exercise using, Kisha law. So in this case, for example, the the direction of the current is not given, but it is being asked what is that current. Okay.

And I the direction of current, if it is not given not given, we choose it. So we don't have to be clever about this. Just pick a value, pick a, direction, and then, use it. Okay. So I'm going to pick the direction of my, current.

Let's say okay. Maybe like this. So this is the direction of the current. So I pick that one. Alright.

And next, what I'm going to do, I'm going to pick the direction of the loop. So and the next, then I'm going to pick a direction on the loop. So the direction that I'm picking, let's say, in this in this point, and then I'm gonna come down here, like, and then go like this and then back to the same point with this direction Like that. Okay. So this is the loop I picked, and I'm going to write now, since there's a single so there's no node here.

So node is here. 0. That's just a single single, loop. So what we need to do, the the potential difference between point a to a is 0. So I'm gonna start maybe like that at this point and then write delta b.

Okay. So in this one so what is the potential of 2 ohm plus? What is the potential of the epsilon 1, let's say, plus what is the, let me just say it like delta v, what is the delta v potential of 7 on? What is the delta v potential of epsilon 2? Let's let's call this epsilon 2, epsilon 1.

And then what is the potential of 4 ohm and 2 ohms plus potential of 3 ohms? So this should add up to 0. Okay. So let's write this. So here, the loop direction so, since we know that whenever we write, it can be in either direction.

It doesn't really matter. But whenever we decide on the current, we decided on what is a higher potential and what is a lower potential. Okay? So in this one, so let me just mark that. So this is a higher potential, lower potential.

Higher high, yes. Higher potential, lower potential, high potential, and low potential. Okay. Alright. So let's write our result.

So what is the potential? Depending on this loop. Okay. So the loop is entering from the negative part and which is opposite of the current. So it's going to be a positive quantity.

So it's going to be a positive, 2 times I or positive I times 2, let's say. Plus, what is the potential difference here? I enter from the positive side end up getting to negative. Right? So my potential has decreased.

So I'm going to say it's going to be minus 12 volts for the battery. What about here? Again, I'm running against the the current, so that's going to be positive, I times 7 plus. This one, I enter from the negative and end up getting at the positive, which means I have increased my potential, which is plus 4 volts here and plus for about 4 ohms, 3 ohms. I mean, they are the same.

You're we are still going against the current. So that is minus I times 4 and plus another minus I times 3 for the sky that ends up getting 0. We end up getting 0. Okay. So here, 4 minus 8.

So it's going to be minus. Why did I write minus here? It's going to be positive. Right? I always get up.

Okay. I always get extra, I times 4 I times 3. So I always get a potential, right, higher potential. So that means my potential has to increase. So it's going to be minus 8, plus 2, 9, another 7 is going to be 16 times I is equal to 0.

So the current is 8 divided by 16 which is 0.5 ampere. So that's let's do since this example was quite, straightforward, let's do an example with 2 different loops. Right? So this wasn't really that hard. Now let's imagine a situation where we have 2 loops.

A resistance of 3, 3 ohm. A battery here, Epsilon, another battery here, 12 volts, and, another resistance here. Another resistance there. This is 1 ohm. That is little r.

And, so this little r. Okay. So what's given in the problem? So I'm gonna write everything in black in terms of showing you what is given. So this is the the current going on this wire is 1 ampere.

And, so this is 12 volts. What else? And then, and then the current going on this one is 2 ampere. So these are given. So what is, epsilon?

So what is epsilon? What is little r? And what is the current going on here? So these are the question. So, so here, since there are 2 loops.

Right? So there are 2 loops here. Right? Like this. For example, we can do, like, 2 loops here, and these are the nodes.

So at each node so you can use this. So the first rule of the, the bottom node, I'm going to draw. So this one is coming in 2 ampere. This one is going out again like 1 ampere. So there's a current going in like this.

So total the current going in should be total current going out. So this will be 1 +2, and this is I. So I is 3 ampere. So we established that. Since I is 3 ampere, I can also say, like here or let me just practice on the loops.

Let me just, do it with the loops so that it will make much more sense. K. So what I know here, so let me write, the currents in red. So this is 1 ampere. This is 2 ampere like this.

And 1 ampere like that. And then there is 3 ampere 3 ampere like that. So let's do a loop. So I'm going to do this loop, this first loop. So in this loop, the first loop, what we have let's start from here from here to here, nothing, but I enter from the positive side of the the battery.

So, which is an epsilon value and then end up getting it negative. So I'm I I should get minus epsilon from here because my voltage is decreasing. And, similarly, since these are the current values, the currents are always the direction of the higher potential. And then if I go in this direction, which is the opposite side of the the current, I get extra potential. So which means 1 ampere times 1 ohm.

This one. So I follow my loop here. The the loop here is this one is positive. This one is negative. I enter now from the positive side, end up getting a negative side.

So my potential will decrease. So it's going to be minus 2 ampere times 3 ohms. That's equal to 0. Okay. So minus epsilon is equal to plus 1 minus 6 equal to 0.

And our epsilon value will be, alright. Yeah. So it's going to be minus 5 volts. Is that so? Yeah.

Well, it's a exhibition, exhibition. Okay. So let's do the second loop to figure out what that little r is. So let me just start from here and go in, again, clockwise direction. See, my second loop, I'm gonna start from here and coming in here.

So this negative part and then I end up at the positive part, I gain potential. So that means plus 12 volts. Okay. So it's going to be plus 12 like this. And the loop and the current are going in the same direction.

The current has higher potential coming in and going out, negative potential. That means minus, 3 ampere times or minus 3 times r, just to be 3 times r, like that. So I follow my loop. And, again, the, the potentials are high potential and low potential. I go with the the current.

So that's going to be minus 1 ampere times 1 ohm. So now I don't care about this the direction of this one. And then, it's so, I mean, I care about the direction here because I'm entering in a negative and positive, but the value here minus 5 volts, I'm gonna plug in here later as minus 5. I'm not changing the direction of the battery since it's 5. I'm not changing anything.

I'm gonna keep my loop like this. So I'm entering a negative, end up getting a positive part. So that's going to be my positive epsilon value. So this is epsilon, and that's equal to 0. Okay.

So my my epsilon is minus 5. So that's going to be 12. So 12 minus 1 minus minus 5 is equal to 3 times r, And this is makes a positive value. And and so that's going to be, positive 6 minus 1, if I'm not mistaken. Okay.

So it's going to be 70. So do you mind? Right. So I go this way. Positive and negative.

Why did I write? Oh, this one's wrong. Okay. I go this way. Negative positive.

That's a positive 12. And then this negative 3 r. And then this, again, a negative one and and a negative epsilon. A a positive epsilon. Okay.

Positive. Alright. I know. Why do I write? Okay.

It's a post post party. Alright. Okay. So this makes sense. So it's going to be 6 divided by 3, this little r, and there is 2.

Okay. And you could also do a 3rd loop without having to, do also. So, I mean, we are done with this. We are done with this. But, alternatively, you can do a 3rd loop here, which is maybe something like this without with surpassing this one.

So this is called the 3rd loop. So, imagine I don't know I know the little r or I don't know little r, so I wanna figure that out for this one. So I can say starting from here again. So let me just put the direction of the current. That's important.

Okay. So what did I pick? So this one is 3 ampere, and then there's positive, negative. This is 1 ampere. Again, positive.

I'm not using this one. I don't I don't need this. And this is positive and negative. Okay. So for this loop, Starting from here.

I'm answering from the negative, getting it to positive. So it's going to be 12 volts, positive 12. And then also getting it negative minus 3 r. And then here, I'm getting at, getting in with positive end up with a negative, which is minus 6 or minus 2 ampere times 3 ohms. And that's equal to 0.

So 12 minus 3 r minus 6 is equal to 0. And from here, r is equal to 2 ohm. Again, we get the same result. So this is an alternative way of either do the second loop or the third loop. We're gonna get the same result.



Now appears positive negative positive positive positive negative epsilon object. Capacitor so we're going to have another example on this. Right. So we have a battery here 4 volts, epsilon, and resistance which is 5 ohms, and it comes down like this. Another resistance here and which is 3 ohms.

And then another loop, another resistance here like that. That is going to be 5 ohms and, that is 8 volts. That is 3. That is 5. So this is 5.

That is 3. And another battery here, negative, positive, like that, and a capacitor. Yeah. Like this. And, so the currents are given as here, I 1, I 2, and i3, like that.

And the question asks, what is what are those currents here? And, so here, I should give 3 volts, and this will have a 6 microfarad capacitance. And what is the, the potential of the capacitor as well? Okay. So, let's start from the q short laws.

So the Q short log let's say Q short current log here, and then we look at the node, doom. So coming in, currents are i3, and going out, currents are i1+i2. So this is our, let's say, first equation. Okay. So most of the questions, they're not gonna tell you the direction of the current.

And it shows So, I'm gonna make this small. So let's do a loop like this. So I'm gonna start from here and end up here. So I'm gonna call this, let's say the loop, the first loop. So first loop tells me I'm gonna go in this direction like this.

So here, this is negative. Maybe I should blow it up a little bit. Okay. So this is negative and positive. The who your market.

Okay. So, this is, positive and negative. And so here, for example, the current I 2 is got coming in like this. That means there's a positive, there's a negative, of the potential. And similarly, since I 3 is like this, so that is I like this, so that is I there's a positive and a negative potential of the resistance.

So in our first loop here, we can write so we are starting from the negative end up at the positive. That means I am increasing my potential. That is 4 volts. Right? So here, 4 volts.

So I end up coming in here. So I hit the positive and then, end up at the negative. That means minus 3 times I 2. Okay? So it's a negative potential difference.

And this one will be also a negative potential difference, which will be minus 5 times I 3, and that's equal to 0. Okay. And so we can rewrite this, thing in terms of so we can end up writing it like this. 5 by 3, that is equal to 4. And let's pick another loop.

So let's take another loop like this. So I'm gonna call this the second loop. And the second loop, so I'm gonna stop from this point. And here, I need to put in also the, polarities of the potentials. So there's a positive polarity here, negative polarity, and this guy has a negative and positive polarity like this.

So if I go in this direction, so I'm go against the the current. So that means I should put here positive 3 times I 2 here like this. So I end up getting into a positive and negative like that. So so which is 5 times i1. And I turn up here, so it's going to be my state potential, which is plus 8, and that is equal to 0.

So if I rewrite this thing, so 8 equals 5i1 minus 3i2. So I have 3 unknowns, 3 equations, and I can solve it. I can find out those currents. So, So that's going to be 3i2 +5 timesi3, which is 5i1+5i2, and I get 4. And here, I rewrite this, so that's going to be 8 I 2+5i1.

That is equal to 4. And my second equation is, 5 I one here and positive, and a negative, 3 I 2, and that's equal to 8. So that's the first equation and second equation no. The second and the third equations. So the second equation and the third equation.

And so if I do like 2 minus 3, right, here, So that's going to be 2 minuteus 3. I can get rid of the 5i1. So that's going to be 8i2 minuteus makes it plus, 3i2, and then that's going to be minus 4. And the. Right.

So here, I 2 will be minus 4 divided by 11 ampere. So that means the direction is I 2 is actually in reverse, but I'm not gonna change and update. No? I mentioned, Yeah. We exit.

So so take this one and plug back in here in one of the equations. So minus 3 times I 2, which is minus 4 by 11 plus 5 I 1, and that's equal to 8. And so that's going to be plus 12 by 11. So here, I one will be 8 minus, so let me write it like this. 1 over 5 8 minus 12 by 11, And I one will be, 88, so 78 6.

Right? Divide by 55. Excel only key. Okay. Alright.

So this is I 2, and I 3 will be I 1 plus I 2. So I end up getting, 76 by 55 plus I 2 is minus 4. So that's going to be minus 20 divided by 55. Right? Okay.

So that's going to be 56 by 55. Alright. Something like this. So that's our answer. And most of the questions, you might numb some rational numbers.

That's not a, you know, interview. That's okay. Yeah. Alright. So what about the the potential or the the capacitor here?

So so this is almost done. And our next question was, so if I sketch the lower low lower loop and negative and positive, and I have a capacitor like this. So I know this is 8 volts and this is 3 volts. And so what is this v c? So again, if we do a loop like this, So this is positive, negative, negative, positive.

K. And, so what we get from the loop so we end up lowering our potential. So that's going to be minus 8. And I end up getting here. I don't really know which one is the polarity, so I'm gonna keep it as plus v c for the time being.

And and then I hit the positive part first and then end up in the negative part, which is minus 3 volts, and that's going to be 0. So vc will be 11 volts. The the the the is here such a way that, so you end up so, for example, if you put a voltmeter here, you measure 11 volts. So that means, the the positive parts are here, and the negative charges are there. So so remember the loop direction.

Let me write the loop in red. So the loop direction is like this. So you end up gaining a positive capacitance, the or or positive potential of the capacitor. So that means you end up getting, like, 11 volts. So, so we can also ask what is the charge of the the capacitor.

So q by c is going to be the the potential. So q will be equal to c times v, and c is given as, 6 microfarad. So that's going to be 6 microfarad times 11 volts, and then that's going to be 66 microcore. Eric. Okay.

So it's going to be positive 3 votes. Yeah. Alright. So we have, this type of circuit. And this is connected with a battery like this.

So in our question, so this is given as r, r, r, and 2 r. And in this case, r is equal to 1 ohm, and epsilon is 13 volts. And and so the question is, well, let's say the the currents are given. So this is I one, That is I 2, and that is I 3 here. And this is Epsilon.

And so the question is, what is I 1, I 2, and I 3? And what is the r equivalent equivalent resistance of the circuit. In it. So let me copy this for my page. Not to rewrite this, everything once more.

Right. I'm gonna paste it here and make it a little bit smaller. Okay. So first of all, I should write, let's say, a current here. Let me write let me write a current here.

Statement there. So here, what should I write? My current I wanna use I 4 or I 5. I wanna write in terms of I 1, I 2, and I 3. Right?

So if I look at this node, let's say, the a node, so what is coming in here, there is I one coming in and I three going out. So what is this current? So incoming current should be equal to an outgoing current. So that's going to be I one minus I 3. Right?

So that's going to be I one minus I 3. And what about this 1? So I'm gonna call this p node. So node b. So node b.

So incoming current is I 2, and there's also an incoming let's say, an outgoing current here. So that's going to be 2 incoming currents will be equal to 1 of the outgoing currents. So I'm gonna write I 2 plus I 3. So you can check this out that you know, here, for example, what is the current coming in here, I one plus I two, which should be equal to I one plus I two. So you can check out from, let's say, node c, this current plus that current should give us this one, which is the case.

Alright. Okay. So let's take some, loops. And for the loop, let me use this color another color. So let's just try to take different, like, loops.

So what I need is I need 3 equations. Right? I I need to take 3 loops. So, one of them you can take, for example, this this loop. Maybe I can take this loop like this.

Okay. I can so let me call this the first loop, and let me call here a second loop like this. 2nd loop like this. And maybe I can take another loop here, or I can take another loop from outside. I have 2 options.

So I'm gonna call this loop the 3rd loop. Okay. So before writing our loops or delta v, let's just put in, the the polarities. Okay? So maybe, yeah, let me just make a more striking color here.

Okay. This color. So what is the, so in here, what is the, the polarity? Maybe Okay. So this is positive.

This is negative. Here. So this is positive. This is negative. Again, positive negative.

Positive negative. Positive negative. And positive negative. Okay. So, so let's write our first loop.

So what does the first loop tells me? So I start from here. I come to this resistance, which is I'm going with the direction of the current. Right? So I'm going to write since r is 1 ohm, I'm I'm gonna drop that.

So what I need what I wanna write is just minus I one. Right? From here, minus I one times 1. So I'm gonna drop this one. So I can write it to you if you want, but it's going to be more complex.

So it's going to be just I one minus. And here, again, minus plus minus minus I one minus I three here. Okay. So, again, I'm hitting from positive and and I'm getting negative one. So here, I hit a minus part, end up getting a potential, which is positive epsilon is equal to 0.

Okay. Any questions so far? So we have minus 2i1 plus, i3. That is equal to or plus epsilon is equal to 0. Well, this is the first.

And what about the second loop here? So again, minus i2 here, and I'm going against the the current here. So So it's going to be positive I 3 here and against, and against the current one more time. So that's going to be plus I one that is equal to 0. Okay.

That's my second equation. And let's just take this one as well. I start from here. I go with so my 3rd loop is I go with a negative here minus I 2, this one. And that's going to be so there's another 2 here.

Okay? So it's going to be again another minus minus or plus, let's say minus 2 times I 2+i3. Because 2 times r and another post epsilon, and that's equal to 0. So if I tidy this up, so it's going to be minus 3i2 and minus i3+epsilon. That's equal to 0.

Okay. So let me rewrite these formulas. So this is the first one. It's the third one and the second one. So the first one, minus or plus 2i1and minus I 3.

That's equal to epsilon. And the second one is I one minus I two plus I three. That is equal to 0. And the third equation is again, I'm gonna keep the epsilon to be positive here. So that's going to be 3i2+i3.

That's called. Pardon? At. Epsilon, they demonstrate the on each architecture and one of the. Okay.

So let me get rid of I 2. So what is I 2? So from the second one, I 2 is equal to I 1+i3. And let me distribute it in or or in just here. So the 3rd equation will become, so it's going to be 3i23i1 plus 3i3plus2i3.

That is equal to 13. So that is, 3i1 plus 5i3. That's that's my new equation here. So I'm gonna compare it with the first one. Okay.

So, so 2i1 minus I 3, that is 13. And then the 3i1 plus 5 i3, that is equal to 13. So what do we do? We multiply it with 5. So multiply it with 5 and add it up.

Oh, that's gonna be 10. So 10 plus, 3, that's going to be 13 I one. So I got rid of this. And then that's going to be equal to, like, 6 times 13. So from here, I one equals, 6 ampere and plug back in here, let's say, in the first equation.

So t 2 times 6 minus i3 is equal to 13. So here, i3 is minus 1 ampere. Okay. So i2 is equal to i1+i3. So that's going to be 6 +1, which is equal to 5 on pair.

And a shared also sah deter devrims. So these 2 will be series, and series they will be parallel to each other. Okay. So but I have so what if I have some some something here again? So this will be like, 2 will be parallel, 2 will parallel, and those 2 will be series.

Again, no need of Q Shock. But if I have a resistance here, then I can figure out what is series and what is parallel. Sure. So what is the r equivalent of this one? So we know that this is 13 volts, and so it will be in such a way that this one, so I'm gonna replace that with just a single resistance, which is r equivalent, and I should get the same currents.

So what is the current here? So the current here is so what was the current? So this was I one. This was I two. And the the the current total here is I one plus I 2.

So this should have also I one plus I 2. Okay? So this is epsilon. So r equivalent times I one plus I two should be equal to epsilon. Okay?

Since I know I one and I two, what what are those? So this is 6, this is 5 ampere. Equivalent, that is equal to 13. So our equivalent, in this case, will be 13 divided by 11 ohm. So so this whole thing is actually so if I sketch this thing, and this is basically equal to this.

So you can write this thing as here like that or when you write it like this. This is actually the same thing. So not this one. It's actually the same. Right?

So this is 1, 1, 1, 1, and 2. So it's going to be 1, 1, 1, 1, and 2 here. So sometimes there will not be a so let let let's just, so what are the values here again? What are the current values? Let's analyze this with the potential differences.

So what is I one? So I one is 6 ampere here coming in and 5 ampere coming in, and there is I 3, which is minus 1 ampere. And here, that is equal to So 6 and minus 1. So these 2 if you add these 2, you should get this 1. So which means that's going to be so this is, So it's going to be positive one pair, and I'm gonna change the direction of this.

So there for you. So it's going to be 7 ampere here. And and then this is 5 coming in, 1 going out. So it's going to be 4 ampere going out like this. So you should get 11 ampere and 11 ampere here.

Okay. So if I call this point a and let's call this point b. So, and then let's say, what is the, let me write here again. I'm gonna sketch the the potential differences here. Okay.

So here so what is the potential difference here? That's going to be 6 volts. Right? And the potential difference here is 5 volts. Okay.

And the potential difference here is 7 volts, and the potential difference here is 8 volts. This time flat. And the potential difference from here is, let's say, what is it? 11 volt. So in order for a current to come in here, so any current that is coming in and out from between the point a and b, there must be a potential difference which is different than 0.

Potential difference and I'm gonna they will be decent versus the objective versus the objective versus the objective. And will be 0. So there won't be any current. So the current coming in here will be 0.


And my edit column are cluster. You start planning chapter objects. Should be multi there are the green frames. The the. This symmetrical region.

So imagine we have a cube and then, so so this is the diagonal part. So what is r a b, the equivalent resistance, between those two points? And okay. And and each has each has the same resistance. So that's why it makes easy this problem.

But it's not going to be easy if, it is any different than r. Okay. So let me just draw this cube like this. So each so that's the point a. That is point b.

So if you look into here, for example, let's just start with point a, and point a or the node a will have 3 branches that the the current can go in. So how are the the the current going to be distributed? So here, for example, if we have, so let me try to make a decent cube. Okay. So, so this is the cube.

So we have this cube. So I'm gonna reuse it. Okay. So first, we said that so if you look at this corner, for example, they they, there's some current coming in here. So there's a current coming in here.

So we can divide it by 3 here. So imagine so imagine you are in one of those strikes, let's say, one of one of those paths, and then, you want to go to point b. So what is your alternative? So first, so let's just go this way, and we can go this way, and we can go this way as well. So next, what we are after here is that we have, like, 2 options here.

So in this option, we can go either go up here. So you can go up here or you can go this way as well. Okay. And at the end, k. Here.

So at this point, you don't wanna turn back here, but you wanna reach the to this point. You can go like this. And from this point, you can go like this as well. So these are basically those, colors represent the, the asymmetries. Okay.

So I'm gonna throw the what is left of it. So here again, this one and this one. And, so after yeah. Okay. And this one and that one.

K. So so we have basically, so if I call this let's say so I'm gonna call this, like, 1st and the second step and a third step. So when you are dealing with this and and you wanna reach to b, from a to b, you go first pink, and then you go the, the the yellow, and then you go blue. Right? So the the path that you are taking is actually green.

So you go first, let's say, pink, yellow, and blue. So that is the, let's say so that is the the path of, or the the the possibilities that you have. So the the pink and yellow. So yellow and blue. So if these are the paths that you take, so that means you always have, have asymmetry.

So meaning that, so if there's a current coming in here, I, so if there's a current coming in here like this, current coming in here, I, so you have 3 ways to to go. So you can divide it by 3. I by 3, I by 3, I by 3. So this pink, the current coming in here, pink, this will be dividing by the the current by 3. Would they have the So you have 2 options.

You you have to divide it by 2. Right? So the current coming in here, I by 3, is should divide it by 2. So it's going to be I by 6. Right?

So this will be I by 6. So the current will be like I by 6 here. And at the end, so when you go towards, like, the the blue, so any yellow color will have, will have the current of I divided by 6. So I divided by 6 coming in here. So those 2 currents will be, combining into a new current, which will be I by 3.

So again, I by 3. The current divided by 3. So those 2 currents which you split up here. So this is I by 3. So it divides to I by 6.

I divided by 6 here, for example. So this current so this one also divided by I divided by 6. I divided by 6. Here again. Again, this one divides by I divided by 6, I divided by 6.

So it points, let's say so here, these two currents will, for example, these 2 currents will end up heading up. So this will be I by 3 here. You know, let me just use another color. So you add these 2 and you get I by 3. You add this one and add that one which you will get I by 3.

And you add this one and add that one to get I by 3. So these 2 3 terms will give you I at the end. So it's a actually, the the the pink ones is equivalent to to the blue ones. What is RAB? Sure.

Play the videos. So epsilon. So this is equivalent to just a single resistance. Like this. So I know this is epsilon, and the the potential difference will be also so the current coming in here, for example, is equal to I times r equivalent.

Right? So this is r equivalent. So what is the potential difference? Delta v, which is equal to v a b, is equal to delta b. So if I pick any, let's say path here, for example.

So I'm gonna pick any path to calculate what is our the the potential between a and b. So I'm gonna pick a path, let's say. So let me just pick this path. Take this one, take that one, and take that one, and calculate Vab. So what is Vab here?

So what I know that I know the current here, I by 3, going from r resistance. So there's a resistance here, which is I divided by 6 coming in here, and there's a resistance here, which is I divided by 3. So if I give points, let's say, so let's give, like, c and d. So what is v a b? V a b is v a c plus v c d plus v d b.

Right? So what is VAC? The the potential? I divided by 3 times R plus this one, I divided by 6 times r plus I divided by 3 times r. So this will be a b and that is equal to so we expand it by 2.

So it's going to be 5 I times r divided by 6. Okay? So this should be equal to this v a b should be equal to I times r equivalent. So what is r equivalent? So what is an RC circuit?

So technically, I I mean, when we were dealing with the the capacitance, we were thinking that there is a battery, and if the battery is connected to a capacitor, and then that's it. So this is in, let's say, in theory, it is like that in an ideal case. But in reality, no matter what you do, there is always a resistance. So that resistance can be due to due to inherent resistance, resistance of of wire of, let's say, bat. 3.

Alright. So, so there's always a resistance. So the resistance is not going to be 0 in, in reality, let's say. So what does, what does this impose us? So the the RC circuits have, let's say, some, like, time constants time constants.

So meaning that they, so those are the fundamental things before we dive into electronics. So those are how we are controlling the the time in with, electric circuits. Electronics So those time constants are, you know, used in traffic lights, and then, like, blinking lights, like, turn signals and, windshield wipes. Windshield So so we're gonna at the end of, this RC circus, we're gonna understand why we are, talking about time. You know?

How the time is, inserted in these things. Okay. So let's just take a look into c circuit, which we can draw it like this. Epsilon. So this is a switch, Anakta.

So when the switch is on on, then the capacitor starts charging up. Right? So we we call this, and then, and then we when we, let's say, wait long enough, the the capacitor is full and there is no current on the circuit. So, so the way that we, like, characterize these is that so when the switch is on, let's say, when the time is, like, very close to 0 seconds, and we say, like, time is equal to 0 plus seconds. So our circuit would look like would look like this.

And when the time is much much greater than 0, our circuit would look like this. So meaning that, so here, there's a current which is the current is maximum. And in this one, then the current is here 0. Okay? So so we're gonna, see.

So these are the 2 extremes, and we wanna understand what is going on in between here. So when time is, between, like, very, very, like, long enough and time is quite equal to, let's say, 0 seconds. And now what is going on here? So we have to write it down, our formula. So let's start with this.

Our epsilon here, our patterns, r and c. Let's they loop like this. So I'm gonna let me just do a loop like this. A. Right?

So I'm gonna start from here, and, this is positive negative. There's a current coming in here, positive negative, and then there's some type of, like, you know, also a positive negative like that. Okay. So in this loop, the potential difference is 0. That means I start with epsilon, positive epsilon, minus there's a current coming in here, minus I times r.

And then I also consume some potential here because I get lower potential, which is minus, v c with the like this. So let me just write here. V r minus v r minus v c is equal to 0. So that is positive epsilon. So epsilon minus I times r.

So how can I write the capacitance, potential? That will be q by c or little q by c is equal to 0. So I need to solve this question, but what I know is the current the definition of the current is dq by dt. Right? So here, epsilon minus dq by dt times r minus q by c, that is equal to 0.

So this is a differential equation that we are going to solve. Yeah. Alright. Let's tidy this up. So I'm gonna write, dq by dt times r on the left hand side.

So I put it here. So that means epsilon minus q by c. Right? So I'm gonna divide it by r and divide it by r, one over r, like that. So this cancels out.

So that is dq by dt, like that. And, so what I wanna write is dq divided by epsilon minusqbyconeoverr is equal to d t. K? So if I call this u, for example, so I can write this thing as d this I can write this thing as, so what is epsilonqcone over r? So that is epsilon by rqbyrc, Or you can write epsilonc minus q divided by rc.

So this is this thing. Okay? And I can call this thing as, so let me rewrite this thing again. Dqbyepsiloncminusq, and then that's going to be times, like, one over r c here. So that will be dt divided by r c.

Okay. Let's just take a, like, breath here and, like, I'm gonna ask you this one. What is the unit for this one on the left hand side, and what is the unit on the right hand side? So how do I solve this one? So if I call epsilon c minus q as, let's say, u, and then, so then d u will be minus d q.

Okay? So here, this thing, or maybe instead of writing this, I don't wanna deal with the negative signs here. So I'm gonna put a negative sign on the right hand side. So I'm gonna start dq, q minus epsilon c, which is equal to minus dt by r c. So So I put the negative sign here, which I reverse the order.

And now I can do my thing here. I'm gonna call q minus epsilon c is equal to u. That means dq is equal to du. So here, the left hand side will be du by u is equal to minus dt by r c. Take an integral.

What is du by u? And so it is equal to lnqminusepsiloc. So from, let's say, q initial to q final. And on the right hand side, I have a negative sign, delta t divided by r c from time initial to time 5. Alright.

We are almost there. So I'm gonna put the the values here. So ln q final minus, so let me just start. Let me just state this one. So t initial, I'm gonna take t initial to be 0 seconds.

So at 0 seconds, q initial will be also 0. Right? So I'm gonna use this. So this will be 0. This will be 0.

Okay? So now l n q final. So I'm gonna also say that q final is equal to q by all t. This depends on time. So t final will be equal to just t.

So lnqfinalisequaltoqot, and t final is equal to t. So lnq0tminusepsilonc. And here so it's going to be minus l n, 0, minus epsilonc. And that is equal to minus delta t, which is t minus 0 divided by r c. So what I did is I just plug in the value.

See? And, so this one yeah. So a negative sign. I can reverse it back here. And, so ln q0tepsilonc divided by minusepsilonc.

That is equal to minus t by r c. So this whole thing, I can reverse it one more time. Ln epsiloncminusq0t divided by epsilonc. That's equal to minus t by r c. And the Lambda function, you can write this thing as epsilonc minus q of t divided by epsilonc is equal to e to the minus t by r c.

So what we are after is q. So epsilon c minus q o t is equal to I'm gonna write epsilon c on the left and right hand side, t by r c. So epsilon c minus r c is equal to q o t. So you can write this thing as epsilonc 1 minus e to pass. So this is basically the the charge, how the charge is being, restored in the the the capacitor.

And if you take I dq by dt, the the current the integral, the derivative of this one, so what you would get here will be derivative of this one, so epsilonc0, and the derivative of this one is minus 1 over rce to the minus t o r c. Again, so epsilonc divided by rce to the minus trc, and c cancels out. So that is our current. So the the the current is epsilon divided by r e to the minus t r c. So these are our final, like, so I'm gonna just end up here.

Okay. So I'm gonna, I'm not gonna make that joke. Alright. So in my previous lecture, I I just use.



Evet arkadaşlar, bu yoklamayı topluyorum ama ne yapacağım konusunda hiçbir fikrim yok. Bilmiyorum. Nasıl? Olabilir yani bir teklif, tamam, değerlendirelim. Yani bir minimum bir şey oluyor aslında da yani hepsine gelmeyince de yani yüzde doksanına gelince olur herhalde yine.

Evet, şimdi arkadaşlar geçen ders RC Circuit'ı bir giriş yapmıştık yani nasıl oluyor diye tekrar bir bakalım yani şöyle bunu chargeing olarak yine nasıl yapalım? Efendim, kaydediyor olmam lazım ama tekrar bir bakalım. Son dersi kaydetmemiş mi? Tamam, kaydediyorum. Diyelim.

Burda sıralama çok önemli değil. Yani R veya C hangisinin daha önce geldiği önemli değil. Sonra yani burdaki yük şeyi yolunu şöyle şu şekilde bir ifade elde ettik. Bunun üzerinde



So one of the properties of magnets so if you have a magnet like, if we have a magnet like this, and this is n and s, so a magnetic field will come out. Magnetic field. We call this p out, and it goes in towards the the south direction. The magnetic field is in towards south. So it looks like this.

So if you follow it up, so it goes up like this and then comes down to to the south pole like that and like this n and s. So Earth itself is a magnet as well. And, so when we think about Earth so Earth itself is a magnet. Okay. So, so for example, our compass puts a lot.

So it shows, for example, the north like this and south like this. So it's a it's basically the needle is also a. On Earth, the north side or the compass shows towards your geographical north. Right? Like this.

On Earth, like that. But so, for example, if you put this magnet here, the compass here, north and south like that. So it shows towards north. But in reality, the, the earth here. The polarity of earth as a magnet is reversed.

So this is earth. And so which means that the south part part of the, of the compass is attracted with the north part side of the the the Earth's magnetic field. So it's going to be like this. So and the south part of the big magnet, Earth magnet is, attracting the north part of the compass. And when I'm a shake layer of this.

So there is so, so here, this this is the magnetic field like that. So b b going in like this. So the magnetic field of earth is on the order of, 0 point, so we call this 1 Gauss or 10 to the minus 4 Tesla. So magnetic field, the unit for that, for the magnetic field is Tesla. We use it.

For example, Earth's magnetic field is around 10 to the minus 4 Tesla. So Earth has around minus 10 to the 4th. The the fridge magnets And it's like 100 times or 10 times greater than this. So it's 10 to the minus 3 to 10 to the minus 2 Tesla. And, so this MRI machines or n NMR machines, so magnetic resonance, MR.

So it's around, like, 1 or 2 Tesla. And some research labs, who's doing a research on magnetic fields can go up to, 40 45 Tesla, you know, which is a big quantity. So 1 Tesla so the the the shortest story is 1 Tesla is a huge magnetic field. So here, again, we are talking about magnetic fields, but, we don't know how to create them yet. And, we're not gonna deal into that or we're not gonna, think about that unless the next, chapters.

But so far, what we know, the magnetic fields, the source of the magnetic fields are the managed. And, on a charged, particles particle in a magnetic field. So so the thing is if, if there's a charge, let's say, a positive quantity, and then if there is, let's say, under some magnetic field, the magnetic field, the magnetic field like that. And then imagine this is moving in this direction with the velocity v. So the force on a charged particle is qvcrossb.

So that is the force acting on a charge, which is in a magnetic field. Right. So, so here, this is a, again, a cross product or a vector product, which means that, so remember, v cross b as a magnitude wise. So that's the magnitude of v, magnitude of b, and the sine theta, the the the angle between those two vectors. So now for the setup, so what is b and v?

So in this picture so there's a 90 degrees here. So what is v cross b direction? See, the. So the the the the magnitude of that of that course is so the magnitude will be qvbsign data. And the direction, we're gonna find it with right hand rule.

So, again, if we are, thinking in terms of I, j, and k, so let's remind ourselves. So imagine this is I and this is j, and this one is k hat. So I cross j. So that's going to be k. Right?

I cross j. So, j cross k is going to be equal to I hat. And, so what else? K cross I hat will be equal to j hat. So this is a right right hand, expression of this thing.

So if you start from I, j, and k, and then, so I j k like this. So if you go in this direction, I j k is supposed to quantity in between them. So k cross I is in this direction. K cross I is equal to j. J cross k is equal to plus I.

I cross j is equal to k. But if you go in the opposite direction like that, so I j k here again, but you are going in this direction, then you will put a negative sign. So so that means, for example, I cross k will be equal to minus j hat. Right? So I cross k, k cross j, for example.

K cross j will be equal to minus I hat. And similarly, j cross I will be equal to minus k hat. So this belongs here, and that belongs here. Now I would not So let's, go back to our main formula. So f equals qvcrossb.

So that is the the force acting on a charge moving charge. So what is the unit for f? Let's do a unit analysis. That is Newton, and this is coulomb. This is meter per second, and this is Tesla.

Right? So this one is equal to that. So 1 Tesla is equal to them. 1 Tesla is equal to Newton second divided by coulomb or, so Newton second meter coulomb. So we can write this thing as Newton meter, clone per second as well.

So which is equal to Newton meter times ampere as well. So these are all expression of, Tesla in terms of other other things. So you can write also, this one as, what is Newton? Newton is kilogram meter per second square. So I can write this thing as meter per ampere.

So that will be kilogram. K. Maybe I'll write it here. So that's going to be kilogram and divided by, 2nd square ampere. So that's another expression for 1 Tesla.

Alright. So in our example, so q is given as 1.6 times 10 to the minus 19 coulomb, and it's the positive quantity. So that means it's a proton, and it will be a protonal model. So magnetic field is given as 2 Tesla, which is in k hat direction. And the magnitude of the velocity z axis, and velocity is on x y plane.

Okay. So they have described what the velocity the the vector of the velocity. So the question is what is f? So we have to find the magnitude and the direction. And it.

So if I have for example, if I make, so I had I can do this like k j hat like this and k hat in that direction. So it's 90 degrees here. It's j hat. So what's happening here is that the velocity is in on this plane, this x y plane. So here like that.

So the the velocity is, I'm sorry. X z plane. X z. X z plane. So it's going to be on this.

The velocity is on this plane and making, 30 degrees with, z. So this is the velocity, and it's making, 30 degrees with z like that. Okay. So there's a 30 degrees with z axis or k hat. So this is x or I hat, y or j hat direction, and the magnetic field is in k hat direction.

So this is the magnetic field. So what is the direction of force? JHat. JHat. Come on.

Okay. So we can do it. Yeah. I'm gonna right hand rule. So it's going to be b in this direction, and velocity, which is a perpendicular to, to magnetic field is in I hat direction, and this is k hat direction.

So the answer will be in j hat direction. So, so that will be the post. So, maybe I can write it in terms of some vectors in terms of vectors. For example, what is the velocity? So the velocity, if I write it in vector form, is going to be velocity times sine theta will be in I hat plus velocity of the magnitude of this one, cosine theta will be in k hat direction.

So f is equal to qvcrossb. So q velocity, sine theta I hat cross, Let me let me write it this way. So q. Velocity is v. So I mean, I'm gonna rewrite this thing.

Sine 30 I hat plus velocity cosine 30cosine 30 khatcross, is going to be b khat. So I'm gonna write this thing as b k hat. In terms of magnitudes, I'm using it like this form. So here so that's going to be q, v, and b. I can take it that out.

So qvandb in parenthesis. So sine30ihatcrosskhatplus cosine30khatcrosskhat. So this thing will be 0, and this thing will be I cross k will be equal to j hat. So I'll post the j hat. So it's going to be qvbsine30 j hat is our answer.

So let's plug in the values. 1.6 times 10 to the minus 19. Velocity is, 3 times 500, 3 times 10 to the 5. Sorry. 10 to the 5.

And, magnetic field is 2. So at the end, we should get newton here. Right? So that's going to be in j hat direction as well. So the magnitude of that one and, again, sorry, there's a sine theta, which is times 1 half here.

So times one half times Newton times j hat. Okay. So this one is 4.8 times 10 to the minus, 14 Newton. Well, that's our answer. So, what would the, the motion look like?

And, So there will be a force. So this is a positive okay. In the right moment. So there's a velocity here like this and magnetic fields like that, and then there's a force acting on it like this. So these are all 90 degrees.

Right? So these are all 90 degrees 90 degrees. So what would the motion be look like here? And the other side of the show. So this thing will move, a trajectory like this.

So at this point, for example, the force will be in this direction. So there will be a, velocity in that direction, and magnetic field is like So at this point, for example, the force will be again in this direction. Velocity is like that. Magnetic field like this. So they will all be perpendicular to each other at all times.

We're gonna go ahead then. Don't reject it. Alright. So in our next 5 minutes, Okay. F equals to v b, sine theta.

So if that theta is, like, 90 degrees, then the force will be maximum. So the way that we are calculating it is like this. So the velocity can be in parallel with, the magnetic field and perpendicular with magnetic field. Okay. So if you multiply this, b parallel times b, you will get 0 here.

But b perpendicular cross b, you will get a force nonzero here, nonzero, thing that will give you a force in in that direction. So let's talk about the concept of magnetic flux. So we will call this phi b, which is b times the physical area. So remember, the electric flux was c e, which is equal to e dot a. So we use it for in the law.

Right? We use this in the law. We can also define a magnetic flux, which is b.a. So a physical, let's say, area, so which is perpendicular here. And and then if there's a magnetic field going in and out of the surface, so like this, A lot of parallel axis in there.

So it's the magnetic field goes like that. So we can calculate the flux through that, physical area, and that is, b times a times cosine theta because now this is a dot product Since a is in this direction and b is in that direction, and there's an angle in between them, so that is cosine theta. So it's going to be the flux with the maximum when theta is 0. But, this is the definition of the magnetic flux. And sometimes we call this p as web ash, as a unit, which is Tesla times meter square.

But you're not really, responsible for this phone, but it's Webex is WP. We don't really have a name for electric flux. Yeah. Electric electric Alright. So so remember, our gas law so the gas law, what does it, say?

So the electric flux is equal to e times d a, as an integral, and this is equal to q in over epsilon 0. So similarly so this is the the first Maxwell equation. Okay? And the second Maxwell equation is, for, let's say, the law for magnetism. So if you write it like that so for magnetism is the magnetic flux will be equal to b.da, and that will be equal to 0.

So this is the second Maxwell equation. For a dipole, for example, positive and negative charge plus q minus q. So the electric fields are like that. So it's coming out like this, and it's coming into negative like that. So imagine if we take a Gauss surface like this and if I calculate the flux here.

So this will be 0. Why? Because q in over epsilon 0, this guy is 0. Right? So within that gas surface, the net chart will be plus the minus.

So So that is the that is the the case. And for this one, for the Gauss, or the magnetic field, So when you think about a north and south situations like that, so the magnetic field comes out and then comes in like this. So if we have so if you pick, for example, a Gauss surface like that and then calculate so for this one, this is equivalent to the picture here, and that will be 0. So that means no matter what you do with the magnetic field, b dot d a, you will always get 0. So this means that there is no magnetic monopole for now, let's say.

Should I never say a So there's no no monopole.



There is no magnetic monopole. No magnetic monopole there. Monocode. So, let's, keep talking about the magnetic force. So what is the magnetic force?

Or, of course, due to magnetism. Force due to due to magnetic fields. So in order for this to be a a force, for example, this charge has to move with a velocity v, and and then there must be some type of magnetic field. And let's just take our magnetic field to be inside into the page. So cross means into the page, b magnetic field, and course is equal to 2 b cross b.

Okay. So whenever we talk about a so we know what is the essence of this cross multiplication. So the result will be perpendicular to both both vectors. Right? So so, for example, I can, think this velocity as b parallel plus b perpendicular to b, magnetic field.

So in this case so any vectors so in this case, the, the velocity now here is, let's say so velocity now is perpendicular like this. So it's perpendicular to the magnetic field. Alright. So this is the the perpendicular, and let's imagine there's also some type of velocity. Let's just say this is out of pace, so I'm gonna call this v parallel.

Okay. So what's going to happen in this case? So we know that v parallel cross b is, equal to 0, this thing. Right? And v perpendicular times so that means the perpendicular b times sign 90.

So this is the one. So it is itself. It's the magnitude. So so there is no force from the parallel, magnetic field, but there's a force from the perpendicular one. So how would be the the the motion of this particle?

Yeah. Alright. So for this one, let's just pick, for example, I hat in that direction and j hat in that direction, and, k hat will be in this direction. So in this case, for example, what is the the the force direction? The force will be qv perpendicular times b.

And what's the direction for the force? So the course would be in this direction or on the one. Okay. Alright. So how is that going to look like?

So if there were only, velocities, if there were only the perpendicular one, right, so if that's the case where there's a perpendicular force and a force like that, the perpendicular velocity force like that and the magnetic field like this, So that this thing is going to do a circular shape like this. Right? So there will be a a full circle here that I couldn't really draw very well, but you get the idea. So it's going a good circle like this. So this is just due to the perpendicular one.

But there is also a velocity component which is parallel. So what's that going to look like? Right? So as it is rotating like this place it is so so as it is rotating like this and there's a velocity towards you as well. So it's going to move towards you.

So it's a spiral motion. So this force will be due to the perpendicular one. And if you look from the side view, let's say, side view like this, so the side view, we're going to see it something like this. K. So, so now, what we know so this is, this type of motion is uniform circular motion.

Remember from physics 1? So what does this entitle to? Like, there's an acceleration towards the center. That acceleration is v squared divided by r, which is the radius like this. Right?

So what is the, the component of this? This is the perpendicular one. Right? So that's the perpendicular one. And this velocity is the one that is which is the parallel.

Right? So this this thing is going like this. And and from this view so from this view, it looks like this. It's coming towards you. And also, it's doing a cyclic motion.

It's a circular motion like this. So let's, figure out the forces. So what we know, the the, the force that is towards the center is, equal to m times a and which will be a radial acceleration like this. So what is the force? Q times v perpendicular times b.

That's equal to m times, again, v perpendicular squared divided by r. So in that case, so one of those cancels out. So v perpendicular will be equal to, qbr. Yeah. Yeah.

Okay. So we know that this is a constant value. It doesn't change. Right? If it changes, what happens?

Alright? Let's think about that. So this thing is a constant, value. So that means the let's say, the amount of displacement it has in one period, delta t. So for example, if you write it as, like, the circumference or a circular motion, 2 pi r divided by the the period.

So you can write it like this. So these two things are equal to each other. So you can get rid of r's and just write a value with a period value as well. Okay. So let's think about r.

So our question was whether it's going to increase or decrease. Right? So so the velocity itself is equal to qbr divided by m and keeping qbm constant. And let's just say if the if this thing is increasing, then the radius should increase. K?

So that's so this is proportional. Right? This increases. That increases. And you can always change the magnetic field.

So what happens if you change the magnetic field? So that means so meaning that either you keep this constant or that constant, you have to pick. You have to say, actually. Okay. So, you can do all sort of stuff here.

So here, what I want to emphasize is that, we can also measure this length. So this length has a a special name, pitch length. So we can, so if we call this, let's what what was the name for that? Pay me the shade there. Okay.

So so let me call this, like, capital l We can also have some type of relation between this. Right? L. So l is v for, parallel times some time. So what is that special time?

We're gonna call it as period. Right? So because it's the full rotation. And the the the length of that pitch will be the parallel times, the, the period. So we can, solve for period for this one and that one, for example.

So if we write these, so qbr divided by m is equal to 2pi r divided by period. So r cancels out, so t will be equal to 2p timesm divided by 2 times p. So here, you can plug that information here and find out what that length should be. So in our example, the charge is given as 1.6 times 10 to the 19 coulomb minus 19. And, the mass of the proton is 1.67 times ten to minus 27 kilogram, and, b x is 0.5 Tesla, and v x is, 1.5 times 10 to the 5 meter per second.

V y is 0, and v z is, 2 times 10 to the 5 meter per second. So these are given to us. So the question is, what is, the force acting on the particle? What is the acceleration of the particle? And next question is, what is the radius of the the circular motion?

And what is the the l, which is the length pitch length. Okay. Alright. So these are all realistic values. Sorry.

So it's a proton. We know the mass. We know the charge of the proton, and we have a fairly high, magnetic field. But it's conditions, and that would be the the velocity of the proton that has been accelerated and come to a velocity. Okay.

So what is the force? So force here will be 2v timesb. And so this velocity will be like parallel plus the perpendicular, okay, timesb q that is f. So in this case, the force that has a times this. The parallel one will not contribute to force.

And this force the magnitude of the force will be this quantity. And, so which one is parallel? Which one is perpendicular? So since this is in x direction, I hat direction, so this is also I hat direction. So this is v parallel.

And this will be in k hat direction, which will be b perpendicular. So this is the force. So of course, will be 1.6 times 10 to the minus 19 times the velocity, which is the perpendicular one, which is this guy, 2 times 10 to the 5 times the magnitude of the magnetic field. So if we multiply this, this is a rather small force, which is 1.6 times 10 to the minus 17 no. 14 Newton in, in some direction.

So what is that direction? So if we multiply this, so what is, v perpendicular? So this is 2 times 10 to the 5 in k hat direction cross 0.5tesla in, again, in xi hat direction. So what we are doing is k cross I. So that's going to give you so it's going to be in j hat direction.

So 1.6. So it's it is a very small force, but when we calculate the acceleration, it's not that small. Acceleration is force divided by m. Since m is small, then this force is actually a huge force. So m is 1.67 times 10 to the minus 27.

And, so that for the acceleration is 9.6 times 10 to second squared. Yeah. Check-in the. Alright. So that's the acceleration.

So the next question is what is r? So I always use I don't use, like, memorized formulas. So f equals m times v squared 1 by r, so which is again, that is the perpendicular. And that's equal to q times v perpendicular times b. So we can calculate from here.

And so r will be q times b divided by m times b. Alright? So this thing will be, just plug in the value, and, so that's going to be, okay. So whatever value is. It's 1.6 10 to the minus 19 times 0.5 divided by m 1.67 times 10 to the minus 27 at.

We'll now show the the input distance and acceleration evolution or done damage. They will load this as. But let's just keep doing from here. So 1.67 times 10 to the minus 27 times our perpendicular velocity, which is 2 times 10 to the 5 divided by 1.6 times 10 to the minus 19 times 0.5. So this value comes out to be, alright, so 4.4.2 times 10 to the minus 3 meters or 4.2 millimeters.

Alright. So what is the l? The parallel times the period. So period is, so you can write this thing as v parallel. What is the period?

Period is 2 pi r divided by b perpendicular. Right? Values times 14 times, this guy times r, so 4.2 times 10 to the minus 3. The parallel is 1.5 times 10 to the 5 divided by 2 times 10 to the 5. So this thing, will be 19.7 millimeter.

So it's roughly 2 centimeters. And when you say that, it is something, So the, name northern lights or, Aurora. So we live on Earth. Right? So there there is, so on Earth, which is surrounding us, is some type of so this is our atmosphere.

So this is our atmosphere, which is, I'm not. So which is not to scale, actually. So so when there is some type of high energy so there's some high energy lights from, sun. Right? So whenever they get into our atmosphere, so our atmosphere has nitrogen, hydrogen, oxygen, and others.

So all sort of gases, carbon dioxide, pull up the pump. So what's going to happen is that when there is an atom that is coming a very high energy light energy light that makes into, like, a positive quantity and an electron is stripped from. Okay? So what's going to happen is that so this thing is a positive and a negative two charges. So right now, this is happening here now.

So when there is a magnetic field on earth, right, so we know that the So if we follow this magnetic field like this, since we're gonna so so they always have some type of velocity. So what's going to happen is that, so the the plus one will be moving towards maybe something like this. Well and then the other one will be moving towards that. Well, they can move into the same direction. So it's just So so these particles will be more concentrated at the post.

So that's why we see them on the north and the south pole. And here, since they are concentrated, so those charged ions, will be interacting with atmosphere, and then they will be, all sort of, like, collisions happening in the atmosphere, and they are giving out lights. And what are the you you clear? This is the particle. Of course, for electric trash.

Atmos fire, the key up on LALA molecule electric trash. Tesla. Alright. So, with my maybe last 8 minutes or so, I'm going to talk to you about, velocity selector. So it's a setup for velocity selectors.

Yeah. So imagine, so this is actually in, mass spectrometers. That is the setup that we have. And so imagine, there is a channel with, let's say, an opening here, just a little opening here. And, so what we do is we have magnetic fields all in this setup.

So we have magnetic fields like this into the page. Everything is immersed in this magnetic field. And what we now have, let's say, a positive particle like this, positive particle. So what I want to know, or I I want to see that the this particle is going to go through straight from here and comes out here. So this is this will have some velocity.

Okay. So in order for this to happen, I need to apply so, definitely, there will be a magnetic force here, but I wanna apply another force which will be in opposite direction, which I will do it as, with the electric field. So imagine there's an electric field, in this direction. The setup. So if we look into our system, well, this guy is going down with the velocity v, and there's a magnetic into the page, and there's a electric p field like this.

So what are the forces? So definitely, there will be a q times e and columnic force, some electric force, let's say. Q times e, and, the magnetic force will be q times v cross b, which will be, in the opposite direction. So velocity down b into the pitch, so it's pointing towards right. So it's it's going to be q times v times b, which is the magnitude force like that.

So if these two forces are equal to each other, the particle will go straight down. So if the total force acting on the particle is 0, that means it's going to go straight like this. Right? So that means q times e will be equal to q times v times b. So that velocity is the electric field divided by the magnetic field.

Okay? So, here so this is the right, let's say, velocity. But, let's say this is v zero. So imagine we have velocity, which is, we have particles which are slower than this. So imagine so imagine this is the right velocity, v v zero.

So imagine we have some velocity v 1 like that. So this velocity is less than v 0. So what's going to happen is that the, this particle is going to experience the same force, q times e like that, but it's going to experience a less force, which is q times b b b one times b. So in this case, there will be a net force acting on the on the particle which is towards left. So what's going to happen that the particle will divert from the straight path, and it's gonna go towards right.

Okay? So imagine if the particle has a v 2 velocity, which is, this is our v zero, and, and imagine a particle which has a v two velocity which is greater than v zero. So in that case, what's going to happen is that that particle will experience a greater force, magnetic force like that. But the force acting on it maybe I'm I'm going to redraw it. So v 2 like this, but q e will be the same.

So this thing is greater than that. So the be in this direction. So this thing is going to go towards left. So there will be only a single value of the velocity, which will go straight. So what happens after they go out of that or that hole, for example?

So there's a hole here. So imagine the particles will have a velocity like this, and then, let's just, pick should I? Alright. So let's just imagine. This.

So what's not here at the side, the electric field is 0. So what's going to happen to this charge? So so it's going to go towards this direction, f, magnetic field, like this. So it's going to go towards here. Right?

So, so the force, the velocity is down like this. The magnetic field is into the page. So there will be a force acting on the particle, and that is going to force it to locate like this. So the the mass spectrometer has the name. Mass spectrometer measures masses of atoms.

So for example, this type of mass is 12 carbon, 1 hydrogen, so this is going to be, like, 13. So if you have a methane gas, so that's going to be 16. So you can differentiate between these 2. So, again, if this has some mass here, so what's going to happen? So we know there's some type of, like, radius, m 1, r 1.

So this radius is again so what is the radius? Q times, velocity times magnetic field is equal to, the course, which is m times v square divided by r. Right? So if I say m one r one like that, so it's going to be m one and r one ratio. So like this.

So it's going to be q times b divided by the velocity. So this is a constant velocity. So we know that everything that goes on here will have the correct velocity. So this is not changing. This is not changing, and that's not changing.

But these two things can change. Right? So if you have a higher mass, for example, then the higher mass will have a higher radius. Right? So another for example, a smaller mass, let's say, or a higher mass.

Let me carry this to other part, is going to go to so this is m one, and I'm going to draw, let's say, m 2, which is greater than m 1, so it's going to go something like this. So so it's going to go r 2. So if n 2 divided by r 2 will have the same ratio of m 1, r 1, which is equal to qb divided by b. So by so what we do is we put a detector here. So we measure r and



Alright. Thompson's experiment, a over n ratio. So we have the same thing here. This slide velocity selector. So it goes down like this.

But here, how you you are repeating the particle, which the particle here. So what we know, this velocity selector is, again, okay, so the forces are equal to each other. Q times a is equal to q times b times b. So from here, velocity is e divided by b. And so we know this.

And at this part, so if I So something like this. So imagine there's an electric field which is giving this velocity here to the to the to the particles. So here, the the velocity initial velocity is 0, and final velocity is this velocity. So here, the amount of energy that the particle gets from here will be q times the potential difference. So that is the energy, and that will be the kinetic energy of the particle.

So this delta v is here. If this is a distance d, so the the potential difference between these two plates will be e divided, e times d, like this cube. And that's equal to 1 over 2 mv square. So v square is this. So it's going to be the b squared y by b squared.

So here, if I call this, we we can use it the same day, the the electros the the electric field, or we can keep it as a potential difference. I think that makes more sense. A potential difference from here. So these two things are equal to each other. So from this relation, q divided by m will be equal to, so q m comes here, e squared divided by 2, the potential difference, and b squared.

So this has some constant value, and that value is actually, for it. So it's going to be 1.758 8 times 10 to the 11 column divided by kilogram. So from here, we are going to make our connection with the, the force acting on moving charges and the force acting on a charge carrying charge, sorry, the current carrying wire. So what is the magnetic force? What is the magnetic force on current carrying wire?

Carrying wire. So, so what we know, for example, if there's a church with a velocity v and if there's a magnetic field into the page, let's say, there will be a post acting on it. Right? But what is that post? So that force will be in this direction.

So imagine, that that now we have all those charges which are constrained in a wire, and they are moving with velocity b. K? So much of, like a lot of charges this is in the wire that are lots of charges of the v, so that velocity v is actually the drift velocity. And so let's take a portion of the the wire like this. So this is the area.

This is the length. So in this volume, there will be a total force acting on the charge on this volume will be the the force acting on the wire. So it is all have f. So if you add those forces on the on the charges, then you're going to find the force acting on the buyer itself. So how many are there?

So how many, how many charges are there is this the question. So that's because the forces are So, so we have, so this n, this number, which is the charge density, which is is it's a it's just a number divided by the volume. So that volume can be, like, meter cube and stuff like that. So so the number of charge in the system so this is like total f. So f is equal to q times b times p, like for a single charge.

And now so if we multiply this, so this number is, it doesn't give you the amount of charges, but it gives you the numb the charge that's so we have, so n is, so we just need actually this one. We actually need just the number number of charges. So that is number of charge, which is equal to, n times word. Right? So, here, if I multiply number of charge times the force acting on a single charge, then I will find this thing.

There we go. So times the volume. So the volume is the so the volume is the, cross sectional area times l. So number of charges, n times volume times aq, which is q times v times p. So what is this volume?

That is x the the area times the length. Okay? So if I write this thing, so the total force acting on a piece of wire will be n times a times l times q times b times b. And, so for here, we know that this is the drift velocity of the particles. And, so from our previous chapter, when we talk about what a current is, or the current the definition of the current was, n times, q times, a times, v drift is the current density.

And not not just the current. So it's just the current. So here n times a times, drift velocity times q is going to give us the current. So here, then the total force acting on the wire will be, so this n a q v and l and b. So this is the the current.

So since I have written down the course as multiplication of these 2, so, so, of course, I have written it in a vector form. It's going to be like this. I have written it down in a magnitude form like this, q v b. But that means there's an, there's a cross section or, like, cross vector product between these two quantities. That means so this thing will have some type of, direction.

So there's some type of, of a vector here, which will give you the partial direction. So since, you know, what is the drift velocity, direction is the same as the current and which is, well, the current also follows the length of the wire. So if you bend the wire, the current is is going to follow the the the band wire. So if you wanna write it in terms of, you know, some, so this is the current itself. So what I'm going what we are going to write, the current is not a vector itself, but it has some direction.

And that direction that we are going to put into the length of the y. So this is the f on y. So it's going to be I l cross So remember, j is current divided by area. And so j is itself a vector, and and then this area is also a vector. So these 2 multiplication of these 2 is going to give you a current, which is not a vector.

Okay. And, similarly, this is going to be well, this is this exactly the same. So this post acting on a sync time, which is exactly the same. Yeah. So if you look into the unit analysis of this, so this is Newton.

This is length, which is meters, and this is current, which is unpaired, and this is Tesla. So remember, Tesla is equal to Newton meter ampere. So imagine we have a a wire that is the current is in this direction, and then the magnetic field is taking. So we're not taking. What's the direction on the course?

Would I create unit? So f equals I l cross b. So this is the length, l. So the force is in the stair direction. And, similarly, if I keep going, for example, if I have if I take a wire like this, and again, the same l, and again, same the magnetic field like that, so the force will be in this direction.

So you take the same thing and rotate it. And And similarly, let's pick a current like this and still the magnetic field. So I'll keep rotating it so the force will be in this direction. And here, again, current like that, magnetic field in, and the force will be in this direction. So imagine we have a situation like this.

So we have this thing. We have this wire. And this has some type of length l, and current is coming in like this. And this has some radius r and r, and the magnetic field everywhere is in this direction. So so this thing is you can take this 1 plus take that 1 and then add these 2 vectors.

So here, this is the current magnet field is into the page. So what is the first in this one? So the force will be in this direction. So let's call this f one. So this f one is rather straightforward, current times l times b.

Since the l, so this is the l and b are perpendicular to each other, so this is going to be sine 90, which is equal to 1. And so that's the first half of the question, and what's gonna happen to here? Okay. Since l is not a constant, direction, so what's going to happen? So what's happening here is that, since, l is, we are going to divide it into, like, little pieces like this, and we're gonna call this, like, dl.

So in this dl, for example, little piece of dl here, there's a current coming in here, and the magnetic field is is acting on this dl is we're gonna call it db. But, of course, the our formula will be, rather than writing f equals I times l cross b, we are going to write df, this little piece of force, right, is equal to I times dlcrossb. So our first step is to try to understand what this thing is. Okay? So here, this is d out.

This is b, and this is d f. So it's a direction which is perpendicular to I and perpendicular to b. So it's going to be d l times b times sine 90 degrees. So it's going to be 1. Alright.

So what we have, the magnitude of the f will be well, maybe I should write in terms of vectors, so I shouldn't get ahead of myself. So this supports itself. So what I need is I need to write the course in terms of 2 vectors like this. So so this little piece of post is acting on this one. It's like this.

Again, I'm going to resketch this here. So this is the center, for example. We are our distance away. And then there's a d d out here, and then there's a d f force like this. So DF force will have 2 components, which is the FX and DFY.

And the angle between them is the angle here, theta. So d f x is equal to d f times cosine theta, and d f y equals d f times sine theta. K? So what is the f? The f, the magnitude of the f is I times d l times p.

So I'm going to plug that one in here and that one there. Alright. So, so this is, the app. So we are going to, I times the app. So what is the app?

So let's try to figure out what this length is. So this is the length And if I sketch this here So from here, this is the length that we are after, and that length can be drawn as a triangle like this, r r, and this is theta. And this little piece of angle that we're going to call d theta. So this length here, d l, is equal to r times d theta. Does it make sense?

So here, what I need is, for example, what is the force in x direction? So I need to take an integral, which is instead of df, I'm going to write idltimespand, times cosine theta with an integral, and, I times instead of dl, I'm going to write r times d theta. So irb times cos theta d theta. Now I can put in the initial and final values of theta here, which is starting from 0 degrees and goes up to pi degrees. Go ahead.

So this is going to be pi times r times p and then sine theta, and that theta starts from 0 to pi. Okay. So the force acting in x direction is I times r times p sine pi minus sine 0, which itself is going to give us 0. Doesn't make sense. So there's a piece of wire that I'm, calculating the force act for act 1 x direction.

There's no force acting in x direction on this piece of wire. And similarly, so what about the course in, y direction? So d f y, again, I'm going to write I times d l times d times now this is sine theta. So if I write it, I times r times b times, sine theta d theta, and this integration starting from 0 to pi. So now this is made of all.

Makes the questions. Yeah. Alright. I times r times b minus cosine theta, which is starting from 0 to pi. And then I times r times b minus cosine pi.

Minus minus makes it plus. Cosine is Okay. But this is 1, and this is minus times minus 1. And you we're going to get 2 here. So it's going to be 2 times I times r times b.

So this is the force in y direction. So what does this really mean? So what we have found so this is l. This is r and another r here. So the force acting on this is I times l times p, and the force acting on this is in y direction 2 times, I times r times p.

So in essence, actually, this thing, when it has some typo so this is equivalent to a wire which is 2 r net. Right? So here, because this is equal to I times 2 r times b. Theta 1 to theta 2. Put on integral in a day.

So the I times integral I times r times b minus cosine theta, theta 1 to theta 2. So we can use this and then calculate with any values of theta. So imagine, so if we have something like this, 90 degrees. So what's going to happen, the theta initial will be 0 and theta final will be 90 degrees. So here, the force on in y direction will be, again, I times r times b minus cosine pi by 2 plus cosine 0.

So this will be 0, and this will be I times r times b in y direction. And there will be an x direction as well. So I times r times b sine pi over 2 minus sine 0. So this is 0, and this is 1. This is I times r times p, which will be in the storage.

So similarly so if I make another extreme another portion, for example, the the wire starts from here and ends up there. So in this case, the the current is still like this. Let's keep it that way, and this is theta initial will be pi and theta final will be 2 pi. So you can still calculate this and calculate f x here. You will 0.

Because the f x is, sine values. Sine values will be 0 between these 2, but f y values will be cosine. So it's going to be 2 I times r times p. It's 2 r 1 should they covet? Should they covet?

Should they covet it there? It's the I b times 2 r 3 digits. Yeah. So if you make a full circle, exactly, case like this. So if you make a full circle like this.

So current is coming in and going like this. So this one, be like that. So in this part, course, will be like this. In that part, the course will be like this. So the total force here, the magnitude of networks will be I times I times p.

So imagine there's a piece of wire which is resting on, current carrying circuit like this. Right? So, so there's a current coming in like this, I, and then there's epsilon. And this thing has some type of resistance and some length, l, like this. So from the side view, it, sort of looks like this.

So, basically, from the side view like this That's current. Let's, decide on the magnetic field magnetic field is into the page like that. So what is the force acting on it? So magnetic force or magnetic field is like this. So f equals I l d.

So the force acting on it will be of course, towards right, which is in this direction. Yeah. So with this one, you can shoot this thing. So if there is, so, if the wires are something like this. So there there's some type of rails here.

So this thing will have a force f and the current, for example. So f will be I times l times b, which is going to give some acceleration, n times a acceleration onto this piece of wire. And, so let's imagine here r is 0, and then there is only a single resistance, r with this one. So this epsilon is the, EMF of the battery. So the current is epsilon divided by the resistance.

So I can plug that one in here. And l times b, those are all external things. So the acceleration will be ILp divided by m or epsilonltimesp divided by r times m.




Benim ders notlarından bir kısmını, daha doğrusu geçen seneki ders notlarını attım diyeyim sayfamıza. Şuraya bakarsanız eğer şimdi şu kısım zaten sizinle paylaşmıştım. Bu kendi notebook'umuzla. Bu dört beş altı yedi de geçen seneki derse gittiğim yere kadar. Yani bu sene de bu notların hepsini yani oraya kadar götürmeyi düşünüyorum.

Hani ki fazlasını da vaktimiz olursa da yaparız. Yani şöyle ders notları bu şekilde mevcut. Onu söylemiş olalım. Efendim? Avesis'te de olabilir.

Yani bir sürü böyle ders notu versiyonu var. Bilmiyorum eğer hani fotokopi çektirmek isterseniz bu şeydeki de oraya da bir kopya bırakabilirim eğer ama hani PDF'si de hani belki daha kolay takip ediliyor bence. Nasıl? O 0 aynı aynı onları şey yapayım ben size göstereyim aynı. Beğenmedin mi yani?

Evet şimdi manyetik alan konusundaydık, buraya devam edeceğiz. Yani bir tere etki eden kuvveti konuşmuştuk. Aklıma geldi, yok da bağlı olmam lazım ama Numaralar soldan maça doğru, şöyle alayım. Ders alanında alsam kafi. Dediğim gibi yok mamaları hani online'da da zaten kayıtlı gözüküyor.

Onları davet ek puan olarak yani finale ekleyeceğim ve yani eğer geliştirebilirsem vizeye de ekleyebilirim not olarak. Nasıl? Tamam. Yani finale etkileyecek başka bir şey de bulabiliriz yani, onu diyorum. Yani vizeye de eklesem finale eklesem anca kurtarırsın öyle bir şey mi yani ama yani laboratuvar pes fail şeklinde olacak.

Yani nötr hani şey olarak tesir etmiyor gibi düşünün ama hani kalırsanız da kalıyorsunuz. Yani laboratuvardan kalırsanız dersten bırakma hakkım var size. Gözün var mı zorundadınız? Zorunda değilim. Yani satır aralarını iyi okuyun.

Yani laboratuvardan kimseyi bırakmak istemiyorum. Ben illa kalacağım diyen varsa da evet neyse laboratuvar zaten yarın bu bilgisayar bölümü içindi. Tamam. Efendim? Ya o asistan arkadaşlar yapacaktı onu da bir hatırlatayım onları.

Yani yarın zaten bir böyle bir giriş gibi olacak ders. Yani çok böyle ciddi ölçümler almayacağız. Sadece işte aletleri vesaireleri tanıtacağız. Yani genelde hani elektrik devreleri konusu dar olacak yani. Bir bakacağız yani hani duruma göre.

Yani üç ya aslında hani yarınki de dahil olmak üzere beş tane rapor var aslında, yani verebileceğiniz beş tane deney raporu. Neyse onu orada konuşuruz. Biz bunu da arkadaşlar yine şey yapalım. Kaldığımız yerden devam edelim. Geçen derse ait sormak istediğin bir şeyler var mı?

Sorular herhangi bir sıkıntı yok herhalde. Tamam. Bu sefer de bir şey düşünelim, bir loop düşünelim. Force on, Yani burada kastettiğimiz şey arkadaşlar bir şöyle, Yani biz burada arkadaşlar bu formülü sadece düz bir şey için yapıyoruz, denklemi kurguluyoruz. Ama eğer diyelim ki hani bu ne için, yani şöyle bir tel için bunu yapıyoruz ama böyle bir şekilsel olarak hani düz telden farklı bir şekilde diyelim ki yani şöyle bir şey içinde hani burada, hani BF dediğimiz yani F kuvvetlerini ayrı ayrı inceleyip şey yapmamız gerekir.

Onun için de şöyle bir ültegral gerekir Bir ICrosspit. Yani bunu geçen derste bir yarım çemberde yapmıştık zaten. Nasıl oluyor arkadaşlar? I manyetik alan böyle. Evet.

Yani uzunlukları boyunca böyle bir şey oluyor. Yani bu bu şekildeyken fakat işte biz bunu mesela işte şey yapalım yani nasıl diyebilirim mesela döndürmeye çalışalım. Nasıl olsun? Yani işte mesela şeyi şöyle şu an bu şu şekilde bir dikdörtgen şöyle, bunu mesela şöyle doksan derece tutalım. Mesela bu sefer kuvvetler nasıl olacak ne oldu?

Hani manyetik alanı koyduğunuz alanı çok böyle oynamazsınız. Yani mıknatıslar nispeten sabittir. Tabii bazı durumlarda değiller. Neyse. Yani burada yukarı aşağı bir manyetik alan yok.

Burada mesela bu loopar hani şu şuradan hani çok da sıkı olmayacak şekilde bir destek koyduğumuzu düşünürsek mesela bu sefer dönecek değil mi? Yani şeyi döndürüyoruz bu sefer yani birisi ağaçların ismi adı yaptığı için şeyler dönüyor. Yani biz burada neyi gördük arkadaşlar? Bir şeyi döndürmek için değil mi, yani döndürebilmek için mesela manyetik alanda görüyoruz. Bu aslında temel bir motorun çalışma mantığı yani.

Bir motoru nasıl hani şey yaparsa yani elektrik enerjisinden veya elektrik yani kört'tan bir fiziksel bir dönme yani hani mekaniğe doğru dönüyoruz. Burada anlaşılmayan bir nokta var mı? Yani bu retline nasıl dönüyor onu anlayabilirim. Ama yani şey dönmeye başlıyor aslında yani tam olarak şey yapacak ama döndükçe bu açıdan dolayı torkta şey yok yani gitgide azalacak. Ona öyle bir bakalım.

Burayı da alamayan var mı arkadaşlar? Yani visualize edemeyen yani iki kuvvet zıt yönde olduğu için ortaya bir destek koyduğumuzda arkadaşlar ne yapıyormuş? Bu vatandaş dönüyor. Yani bu hani o şekilde dönecek. Evet, fakat bu hani o andaki maksimum top.

Şimdi dönmeye başladığı zaman top değişiyor mu onu bir düşünüyorum. Yani bu tam dik olduğu durumda nasıl oluyor? Şöyle şu şekildeyken maksimum tork var. Çok hızlı dönmeye başlıyor fakat şuradaki tork sıfıra. Yani bunu böyle ekstra döndürecek bir şey yok.

Siz bunu hani bıraksanız yine bu tarafa, o kendi ivmesiyle yine bu tarafa doğru dönecektir. Fakat o zamanın ilk şey ne olacak? I, bunu yanlış mı yaptım? Şurada evet şöyle yapayım yani şöyle şurada bir kuvveti şey yapmam için yani burada şuradan şunu vidialize ederken burayı hani aslında hani şu kısım, yani şu f 1 into the page dediğim şey şu oluyor aslında ben böyle hani baktığım için. Dolayısıyla hani current burda nasıl oluyor, ben şuradan baktığımda current'da into the page olması lazım.

Öyle olmuyor. Ya şuradaki kuvvette de şey yapacak olsak, manyetik alan, current, o zaman şöyle, şöyle olması için o zaman current'le şey yapmaya çalışıyorum, B manyetik alanı buraya aldım. Tamam. Nerede yanlış yaptığımızı bir şey yapmak istiyorum. B manyetik güzel yok.

Tamam. Okey. Yani şurada şeyi yanlış yazdım arkadaşlar, şurada direktion yanlış yazdım. Sonra das how you get the force lites yani burada kuvvet şeylerin, körnikların yönlerini yanlış göstermişim ama şu an uyumlu oldu. Yani dolayısıyla hani bu şekilde bir şey var.

Öyle devam edersek o zaman yani tam şuradaki körintin uyguladığı şeye, kuvvete bakmaya çalışıyoruz. Yani bir salıncak, yani bir tarafa doğru böyle döndürdü, şöyle tam dik olduğu zaman, bu tarafa geldiği zaman tork bunu bu tarafa doğru döndürdü. Yani aslında hani şöyle bir salınım hareketi yapabilirsiniz bu durumda ama motorda, motorlarda biliyoruz, bir dönüyor. Bunu nasıl yapıyorlar? Amin, güzel bir zaman.

Evet, yani orada akım yönünü hani değiştirmek lazım. Onu da hani nasıl yapacağız? Şöyle, Onu çizmem biraz daha zor. Hemen kitabımızdan kopyala yapıştır yapayım. Şu, yani bahsettiğimiz şey şu oluyor.

Bunu daha, biraz daha ileride iyi açıklıyorlar aslında. Hah, şu. Yani bu, yani DC motora hani geliyor. Yani burada da manyetik alan soldan sağa doğru Şurada da işte bu current yönlerini değiştirmek lazım yani tam doksana geldiği zaman current nasıl değişecek? Şurada eğer dikkat ederseniz arkadaşlar, şimdi şuradaki devre dönmüyor fakat burada bir kontak noktaları var.

İşte commitator ve brush yani fırça denilen bir yapı var. Yani bunlar sabit, burada bunlar sabit. Buna bağlı bir sistem bunlara değiniyor yani PDF'sini olmazsa şey yapayım, büyüteyim. Yani burada mesela işte körün burada şu şekilde giderken, işte bu vatandaş yani şöyle yani tork mesela işte bu yönde, bu yönde demesi işte şöyle şu şekilde dönüyor, o zaman kuvvet burada aşağı, burada yukarı doğru. Böyle bu şekilde olacak fakat burada işte döndü ve şurası bakın yani şurada arada boşluklar var şurada.

Tam burada mesela işte şeyin değişmesi lazım, nedir, Yönün, akım yönünün değişmesi lazım. Hani burası sabit. Dolayısıyla hani bu, bu tarafa doğru geçtiğinde, yani şuradaki teması bırakıp buraya geçtiğinde de current yani yönü değişmiş oluyor. Bakın burada mesela şu sol kanatta yukarı doğru iken mesela sol kanat pembe, daha sonra işte bu pembe kısım bu tarafa geçtiğinde aşağı doğru bir görüntü oluşuyor yani bu şekilde şeyi değiştirmiş oluyorsunuz akımın yönünü. Dolayısıyla sürekli bir şekilde torf olarak döndürüyorsunuz yani tork aynı yönde döndürüyorsunuz, motoru hızlandırıyorsunuz.

Buna fırça fırçalı motor yani işte yani şuradaki brush dediği işte o şey sistemleri, kontak sistemleri. Yani zamanla mesela motorun şeylerini, aşıldığını en kısılarak bunlar oraya, yani verimini düşüren, buradaki kontakları şey yapan, azaltanlar vesaire vesaire. Okay, Yani burada da onun için, the current diverction yani burada işte yüz seksen yani yüz seksen derecede bir tarafa doğruysa current şeyi yani şu körıntı biz şuradan şu hale getirmemiz lazım. Değil mi? Ki o zaman kuvvet yine böyle olsun ve bunu da şöyle bir şeye döndürürsek görüntü kuvvet yine bu tarafa doğru olur ve torkta hani normalde bir şöyle diyelim hani orijinali şu yöne döndürürken bu sefer şu morla çizdiğim kısımda da yine bu yöne, şu tarafa doğru döndürülebilir.

Evet, temel sorun arkadaşlar şey ama yani tork sabit değil. Yani tork bu böyle dikeldikçe azalıyor. Yani bunun böyle doksan derecedeyken maksimum tork var, bu da en hızlı burası fakat daha sonra yavaşlıyor. Yavaş tekrar hızlanıyor. Yani dolayısıyla bir şey var, artan azalan artan azalan bir tork var yani burada.

Tamam, İmzalamayan var mı? Tamam, kalem kimin? Bir de kalemle birlikte geldi bu bana. Bu burada durabilir, yani Bir tane daha hani bununla alakalı görsel var. Madem açtık kitabımızı bunu da bir paylaşalım.

Yani bu size bahsettiğim şey aslında. Set up. Şöyle. Bunu da buraya koyayım, yani incelersiniz. Yani burada hani kuvvetleri yönleri bulun, hareketin sonucu ne olacak?

Bunu düşünmek için birazcık daha kafa yormak gerekiyor işin açıkçası. Şey orada. Basit harmonik hareket de değil yani basit harmonik hareket hani bir böyle dönse böyle dönseydi olurdu. Benim hani sonunda yukarıda öyle oldu mu? Yok, yani bu branş motorda hep dönüyor.

Altındakinde evet evet. Yani orada hep bir şey var. Bir kere tarafı da bir Evet. Hani bir yay sistemi gibi. Yani o tarz bir yine uygulamada vardır yani.

Okay. Yani burada aslında bir dairesel bir şey olsa da aynı mantık geçerli yani daireyle yine belli bir şeye oturtup onun da dönmesini izlersek eğer oradan da yapacağımız şey bu olacak yine. We helphome outlying tourly yani burada niye sorun yaptığımızın mantığı da var. Yani tek bir circle yerine otuz tane circle koyarsanız bu sefer korkunuz otuz kat Yani şöyle aslında akım değil aslında efektif olarak yüzey alanı arttı için yani bir tanesi alan var, bir tane daha koyuyorsun, hani A varken A varken atıldı. Tabii, yani bu şey zaten hani bir tane tel aldık, bunu loop yaptık, o teli böyle bağladık.

Hani bir küçük bir silindir gibi. Yani körün geliyor, körün geliyor yani dolayısıyla hani şey var yani her gün bu bir tork yaratıyor, o tork oluşturuyor, otuz tane makasla otuza çarpıyor. Sonra on newton time meether shoodles söyleyeyim, bunu otuz tane sarım olduğu için bu şekilde yapabiliyoruz. Yani burada bir yüzeyden, yüzeyin vektöründen bahsettiğimiz zaman, yüzeye dik olan bir şeyden bahsediyoruz, vektörden. Bu vektörle manyetik alanı çarptığınızda torkun ne tarafa doğru olacağını da bulabilirsiniz veya ani kuvvet üyeleri takip ederek de bulabilirsiniz.

Bu şekilde bir çözümleme yapıyoruz. Bununla alakalı sorusu olan var mı arkadaşlar? Hocam. Evet. Yani eğer şey, şöyle diyelim, olabilir, yanlış olabilir, yani şuradaki kuvvete bakalım.

Burdaki kuvvet hangi tarafa olur? Yani ben buna arkadan baksam, olur? Aşağı oluyor. Ef böyle oluyorsa eğer yani Ef böyle oluyorsa o zaman bunu terse döndürmemiz lazım. Haklısınız, bu bu tarafa doğru olacak.

O zaman bu da o zaman böyle olacak. Yani akımın yönüne göre. Yani şey de yapabiliriz, yani şurada şu işlemi de yapalım. Mesela hani aynı şekil, böyle olsun, İşte mü bu tarafa doğru, b manyetik alanında böyle. O zaman hani sol çeşittir mü mu crossbi hangi yöne bakalım yani şurası mu, burası b, nasıl olacak?

Yani mü böyle, b bu tarafa into the page oluyor yani tork bu yönde şimdi torkun bu yönde olması ne demek? Tork dövme yani baş parmağınızı o yöne gösterdiğinizde yani ne tarafa doğru dönüyor? Onu şey yapıyor yani tork bu tarafaysa yani sistem şöyle dönüyordur yani bu sistem şöyle dönüyor. Yukarıdakiyle zıt oldu. Yani buradaki aslında hani aşağı tarafa da bakabiliriz yani doğru yaptım ben bunu into the page tamam into the page'in o zaman pardon şöyleyse bu tarafa da öyle dönüyor o da öyle dönüyor Okay?

Yani o zaman hani akıl sanki şöyleymiş gibi düşünebiliriz, yani karadakinin tam tersi. Neyse yani bu iki tane şey olabilir ama burada dayanmanız gereken şey F eşittir üç çarpı L çarpı bir yani crosporunda. Yani öteki türlü hani torku her zaman kuvvetten giderseniz hiç yanılmazsınız. Zaten bizim için önemli olan kuvvet oluyor ilk başta. Hani tork birazcık daha bir sonraki adım.

Okay. İsterseniz bir ara verelim. On beş dakika maksimum diyelim.





The positive and the negative charges will stop accumulating or will stop going towards edges towards edges or sides. Yeah. Okay. So so these magnetic and electric forces should be equal to each other. So then, QVB will be equal to q times e, the same formula that we have seen before.

So this is going to be equal to v times b is equal to electric field. And so at some point, so when there is so imagine you have a plate here, and there's an electric field like this building up. Well, positive charges are here, and negative charges are there. And there is a potential difference between these two edges. So this electric field and then there's some sort of, like, thickness d or, like, d, It has a d length, on that thin, scale or thin axis.

So it's going to be delta v divided by d is equal to the electric field. So, so here, for example, we can calculate. So the whole effect is basically used for to calculate the magnetic or to measure the magnetic field. So, so here, for example, b is equal to e divided by b. And then, so here, e is delta v divided by d times 1 over the velocity.

So how can I calculate the, the velocity? It's basically so it's a drift velocity, and we can write so this velocity is the velocity of the plate, and this v is the drift. So remember, the current will change the n number of charges within that volume times q times the cross sectional area times the drift velocity. So that's the current definition. And so this is a drift velocity that we're going to write as BD.

Vd subscript. So I can write vd as also in terms of this. So, here, the drift velocity is equal to I divided by n q a. So here, this is I. And, so if I take this one and plug back 1 in here, so magnetic field will be equal to delta v, the modified d.

And instead of b d, we are going to write d d current I here and n times q times a. And then and then yeah. Tell me. So, okay. So, so from this, we can we can figure that.

So what's if there's a small thickness to this plate, this is the cross sectional area, k, that we are talking about. So the current is basically going like this. So here, if you wanna calculate the the or measure the magnetic field, You should measure the potential difference between these two, edges, and then, we can measure the the current coming in here, So with some type of, some electronic components, you can measure the the the the current as well. So you measure this one. You measure that one, and you already know these, from the metal.

Okay. Alright. So this was the end of chapter 27. And in this chapter, we talk about magnetic force acting on on, moving charges and on wires. We want to talk about the sources of magnetic field.

So that will be, chapter 28 or so. So the next question is, on sources of magnetic, field. Yeah. I mean, muscle is how to produce so let's just write this charge in motion produce magnetic fields. So if we have a charge, for example, like this, and then, charge queue.

So let's just say, so we are looking at a point here, p. And, so at this point, what does this charge produce? So this charge, the presence of the charge produces electric fields, So imagine this thing goes with velocity v. Now it's going to produce an electromagnetic field into the page like this. So this magnetic field, this formula for this one is, mu 0 divided by 4piqvcross r divided by r squared.

Okay. So what does this all mean? So what is r? So r is the distance from the charge to the point that you are looking at. So this is r vector.

So then what is r hat? R hat is r vector divided by its magnitude. Right? So it's a unit vector. So so this whole thing gives you the direction of the magnetic field, and it depends on r, the distance, r squared.

So whenever r increases, the magnetic field should go down. And then there is, and, also, a. So this is permittivity of space or vacuum. So it's a constant. So this is 4 pi times 10 to the minus 7 or something.

So that something is Tesla meter per ampere. So that is mu 0. So this is the cousin of epsilon 0. And epsilon 0, electric So here, for example, the electric field, what was the equation for the electric field? So that's going to be q divided by 4 pi epsilon, and one over r squared, and r hat is the direction of the electric fields.

So our new equation is this 1. So here, what is v cross r? So that is the magnitude of v, the magnitude of r hat times sine theta, and that's the angle. So if you have, for example, if the charge is here, velocity is there, and let's just say the point p is here, so that means, for example, this vector r hat is in that direction. So the angle between them is theta.

That's still in the in this point p. The magnetic field will be still in this, direction. So anywhere, actually. So if if a charge is going in this direction so any point towards its right, the magnetic field is so that's the direction of the magnetic field. So what about the direction here?

So now this is for example, so let's just get here. So it's going to velocity, and then we are looking at a point p here. So what is the direction of the magnetic field here? So that's going to be an r vector like that. So, again, we are doing v cross r.

R. So anything on the left will be pointing in our page. So that's the magnetic field on the left and right. So what about the magnetic field just along the way it goes? So let's just say it goes in this direction.

So here, the magnetic field is 0. So it cannot create a magnetic field on the path it's going. So if this is going velocity v, so if this point is just on here, so that means this r so, basically, r is in this direction as well. So v cross r hat will be 0. So you cannot create any magnetic field just on this path and then on the back as well.

We are at magnitude size 0. Okay. So mu 0. It's mu, 0. So this thing, has has a relation with the speed of light as we have started in our lecture.

So epsilon 0 is the electric permittivity, permittivity of space, and it has a value of 882 8.82 times 10 to the minus 12 something. And, if we take mu0 and epsilon0, multiply them, and take a square root and so it's going to be speed of light. And is 4 pi. So here pi is 3.14 and 10 to the minus 7. So this is Tesla.

So what's the unit for this one? I have written it up. So let's just figure out. So b is equal to, it says mu zero divided by 4 pi. Is that it?

Right? And this is q. So there's a charge here, v times r hat divided by r squared. So what is the unit for? So what is in terms of, you know, units?

So you have magnetic field times r squared divided by qv, times r hat, something like that. Right? But this is unitless. There's no unit for unit vector. And So this is Tesla meter square divided by meter per second.

Right? So here, this will be, Tesla meter cancels out one of the meters here, and then that's going to be per second. So this is ampere. So this is test log meter divided by ampere. And that's the unit for mu zero.

That's what we should write it here. I mean, what is measured by 4 pi is 10 to the minus 7. Alright. So, okay. So next, let's just discuss.

So I'm I'm gonna make that connection, and I'm gonna let you go in few minutes. So since the moving charges create a magnetic field so if I put bunch of charges within a wire, right, and they are all moving. So so this is equivalent to a current carrying wire. Right? So you can also create a magnetic field like this.

And, so from this, the connection is going to come from again. So what we are doing here is that, for example so these charges are, you know, hardest in this array. So what is the magnetic field at point p? And what we need is, to calculate or to find the magnetic field for each particle and add a add them up. So that's going to be the, the magnetic field, created by I current or high current carrying wire.

So b is mu 0 by 4piqvrhat divided by r square. So that's our connection here. So we have bunch of them. So how many of them are there? So we have, let's say, n of them.

So number of, charges are within the wire can be given in some values. So, so in a wire, we model the wire with some thickness, and so there's an there's an area. There is some sort of length here. Right? L.

So the volume is, going to be some number n times the volume. Right? Volume of this thing. So this is area a. So that's going to be n times a times l is going to give us the number of charges.

And then, so the amount of charge so if you if you multiply this with this one, right, so, we take, again, mu 0 4 pi qvrhat divided by r square. So what I wanna do is I want to multiply with n times a times l, so that's going to be the magnetic field of the wire. Okay. So what we know, our definition, n a l and then, not l. N a times q times z.

The definition of the term is n times, q times, a times the drift velocity. K? So this whole thing can be written as a current. So I can write here next. So this will be mu zero by 4 pi.

So I times so there's a l here. So I'm going to write l as a vector, l times r hat divided by square. So that's the magnetic field of the wire. So if you have a wire, I, which has some sort of length here, and what is the, magnetic field at point p that's going to be given with this formula. Well, since the wire has, so let's just say a little bit of length d l.

So I should write here d l as well, and I should write here d b because depending on the situation, how can the Sounds So, so this thing is, let's just say, this is the other piece of the wire, which is, current carrying like this. So if you look into a point p, and then there is an r hat in this direction, and we can always say that it's going to be a magnetic field into the page. So it's this d b, and this is r, and the formula is given with this. Yeah. Sure.

Sure. And with that,



Alright. So we have this, finite amount of wire, which is the length of the wire is, 2 a, and the current is I, and and the p at p is the point from the middle, and it's x distance away. And, the thing that we have to deal with, the formula, is we want to calculate the magnetic field. And, by calculating this formula, which is I, and and then that's going to be now cross r hat divided by r square. Okay.

So, first, let's decide on the direction of the magnetic field, and then we can get to the the vector. Vector So this, this d l, let's say, this is x distance away. So this is our r hat, and then this is the current or light d l. So dlcrossrhat. So what is the direction of this from this picture?

So dlcrossrhat. So that's going to be into the page. Is that right? Okay. So I can wrap this, so I can just say d b is, this thing is d b, let's say, minus k hat or I don't know.

Okay. So this will be into the page. So if I say, for example, this is I hat, this is j hat, and this is, the dot product will be I mean, this one will be k hat out of page, but what we have is minus k hat. So I'm gonna drop the direction of the magnetic field and then, just focus on the integral that we have. So now the l cross r hat, so if we do it mathematically, so what is the magnitude of this thing?

The magnitude of d l times the magnitude of r hat is just one times the angle, which is sine 90. Is that right? And we but in here, so I can pick so the the whole idea of the r is, so I am looking at the point here. For example, here, if I take d l, that's going to be 90 degrees. But if I take d l here, it's not going to be 90, but it is rather a theta, which is less than 90.

And then, so in here, for example, if I take this direction, so that that theta will be, again, not going to be equal to 90. So I shouldn't write here 90. I should just say here sine theta. So this will be d l sine theta, this part. So, dB will be 4 pi and current.

You can take it out of the integral, and this one will be d l sine theta divided by r squared. So r is the distance here. It's always, good to work with angles which is not 90. Kit mirror. And okay.

R hat Okay. So, if I, for example, just say alpha here, so theta is equal to pi times alpha, so both of them, whether it's sine theta or sine pi minus alpha, that's going to be equal to sine alpha. Right? So I can interchangeably, use those. Why do I need to use them?

I need to figure out what's the, so here, what this d l, theta and r, can be represented. Right? Right? So, so let's take this. For example.

So let me take a little piece of dl here. So this is our dl. That is, let's say, the point p here, and this is r. So if I start, for for example, our origin here, so this is x distance, and this is going to be our y distance, and r square will be equal to x square plus y squared. I can write it like that.

So I can write this d l to be dy because it's the it's it is a, parameter that changes in y direction. Okay. So that's one thing. So I can write here d y. I can write here x squared y squared.

And what about sine theta? So it's the theta here. So from this, triangle, what is sine theta? It is the across divided by r. So, so this expression will be, mu zero I by 4 pi.

So d l is d y. What is sine? That is x divided by r, or you can say x square plus y square square root, 1 half, and then divided by r square. So which is x square plus y square. So this whole thing is equal to m0i4pi.

And, so xdy divided by x squared plus y squared three halves. And our parameter that changes our variable is the change in y direction. Right? So it's a change in y direction. So it changed from minus a to plus a.

So that means I can also take x out of the integral. X. So y divided by x, if you call this like tangent u, and then, so then u is equal to arctangent, y by x. And then from here, you can say, dy by dx is, so dy by x, will be equal to divided by x, not the x, will be equal to, actually, like, second square, u d u. And then from this, setup so you can write this thing to be as x, the second square, u d u, divided by x square plus x square tangent square u like this, and then that's going to be 3 halves.

So one plus tangent square is actually second square. So, so what we have here at the end, at the step so you get something like a second square u d u, but at the bottom, that's going to be a second square, three halves. That means that is second cube. Right? So, so that's going to be, du by second u.

And then, so that's going to be nothing but cosine u d u. And then you clock back, u here. So what is u? So that's going to be so the integration of that this is sign u. Right?

And after that so this whole thing comes out to be so this is equal to me 0 I divided by 4 pi, and x is out. And, so one of them would be, well, actually, you you get an x square out of here. So x square comes out here. So at the end, what we have is so let me write this. B0ix4pi.

And so that's going to be y divided by y squared plus x squared 1 half. So it's transformed minus a to plus a. Okay. So and and then I have one over x squared here as well. And So that's going to be m0i x divided by 4 pi.

And, so that's going to be a, the positive one, and then, that's going to be minus and minus a divided by, this whole thing will be the same, x squared plus, in the square root, x squared plus a square square root like this. Okay. So so this is going to be x square. Nope. This is not a this is times.

This is not a plus. What else? Okay. So that's it. That's it.

So that's it. So it's just 2 a. So one of so this comes, this top part is 2 a, and one of the x cancels out. So again, what we get is measure I is divided by 4 pi times 2 8, the length of the, wire, x x squared plus a squared. So what a cute nice formula, isn't it?

So whenever we look into this formula, so if we have a current and then just in the middle or, from the middle, the magnetic field is proportional to to the field is proportional to to the length of the wire. So if it is the length of the wire, if it increases, for example, the magnetic field increases. Right? So this the 2 a is the length of the the wire. So, also, the current at itself so if the current is increasing, then the magnetic field is increasing.

And and then what else? If x is decreasing, also, magnetic field is increasing. So if you get close to to the wire, then the magnetic field will obviously be increasing. And and that's it. That's, that's the thing.

And this whole thing is going to, well, if b is, so it seems like s, for example, x goes to 0, then b seems to go to infinity, but we will figure this out later. So if, for example, if, x is, let's say, 1 meter away, and then, and then let's just say the 2 a is also 1 meter. And, so if I wanna make BP the, to be 1 Tesla, then what would my current be? Okay. Just to have an idea.

So here, so if we use this formula, so one Tesla will be equal to mu zero. Mu zero is 4 pi times 10 to the minus 7 times I divided by 4 pi. And this makes it here 1, another is equal to 1, and then this is going to be 1 square 1 square that makes it 2. So this whole thing just converted to 1. So the current will be in the order of 10 to the 7 ampere, which is not Yeah.

And ask for visual. Dollars. So, for example, if we go, like if you take this and then, so one of those, let's say, scenarios, for example. So our formula is, again, mu 0 4 pi. And, so that is, the length of it.

So if I say the length is 2 a, so that is the length, and then divided by x, and then x squared plus l divided by 2 square, something like this. And so if we take, for example, a very, very long wire, so that means if l is, if x is much, much larger than l, so this whole thing can go down to 0. Right? This, ratio. So that means, you can write you can write l over x to be 0.

Right? So from here, what we get? From here, mu zero I divided by 4 pi and the length of the wire divided by x squared, something like this. Does it make sense? X squared x.

Yes. Okay. Alright. And then the other scenario is, when x is much, much smaller than l. So one thing one, extreme is this is the length l, and then you are going, like, very, very far away.

So that's the magnetic field here that you that you will measure. And then when x is much, much, closer to l, that means you are coming, like, very close to, to the long wire, and then it seems an infinitely long wire. And the that answer, will drop down. So this magnetic field will be like mu zero I divided by 2 pi x, and where x is your distance here. And, so that's the so how how how do we get from here to here is is, in this case, what we can write x over l should be, like, 0 or, like, very close to 0.

So so here, this is this is an important result. So the important result is, for an infinitely long wire that you are somewhere here and x distance or r distance away, it doesn't really matter. This has a current I, and the magnetic field for this one is meterioi divided by 2 pi or r. Okay? So it decays with r like this.

So this is b versus r like that. So whenever you have a current here, you should have a length on the in the denominator. So even if we sort of, like, try to calculate this, so let's just make, for example, another magnetic field. We want this to be, like, 1 Tesla. And then let's just say mu zero divided by 4 pi, so that's going to be 2 times 10 to the minus 7 times, let's just say, current divided by r.

So let's just make r like 10 to the minus, 6, meters, which is 1 micrometer. Okay? So in this in this case, the current will be so this is micro. So this, like, so the current will be, 1 over 2 times 10. So it's in, minus.

So it's going to be 10, like, 5 ampere. In. So, we can also use this, for example, use this information to calculate, like, 2 parallel, let's say, wires. So infinitely long 2 parallel wires carrying current I. And let's just try to figure out what are the magnetic field at these points.

Okay? So alright. So let's just say this is I one, and then that is I 2. And let's, calculate, for example, let's just say the distance from here to here is 2 d. This is d and this is 2 d.

So let's call this point a, and point c and point b. So what is the magnetic, field at point c and a and d? Okay. So first of all, we have to remind ourselves what would be the direction of the magnetic field. The the current due to the first one, so let's just say for the point c, so b one at point c will be mu 0 I divided by 2 pi d.

And what's the direction? Direction is into the page. So if I say, this is k hat, and this is going to be a minus k hat. So let me just show it like this. That's into the page.

Right? And what about b one a, which is the working on or the magnetic field here. So that's going to be mu0i 2pi times 2 d. The that's the distance, and then that's going to be in this direction, auto page. Okay?

So what about a point So b one d, that's going to be mizero I I one I one I 1 divided by 2 pi and then 2 d, and that's still going to be in this direction. So let's, write down the magnetic field of the of the sky. So what is the direction of the magnetic field at point c? So here, what about the magnetic field at point c? So I'm gonna just say this is going to be point b or 2 c.

So this guy, which is going to be me 0 I 2, divided by 2 pi 2 pi and then d, and the direction will be into the page. And here also, that will be into the page. 2 mu 0i22pi times 4 d, and then that's going to be into the page. And b two d will be mu zero I 2 divided by 2 pi and then 2 d, and then that is autopage. B to, h.

So the total magnetic fields will be So in here, so measure of 2 pi or measure of 4 pi, whatever. We can always take it out. So that's going to be, positive k hat this direction, and this is negative k hat. So I'm gonna write in that, form. So that's going to be mu0 divided by let's just say 4 pi d.

And Yeah. And surely, and it. 1 minus I 2 divided by 2 k hat. Yeah. 8 d.

So that's going to be 2i1minusi2. Yeah. Mu0i 1 or mu 0 divided by 2 pi d, so they will be in the same direction, I 1+i2, which is in minus k hat direction. And if we add these up, mu 0, a, mu 0 divided by 8 pi d again. It's b minus 1 here, and this is, so it's going to be 2.

So minus I 1 plus 2i2khat. The?

Alright. So, for example, if I take, the currents to be the same, let's just say, I one and, I 2 are the same numbers. So if I do that, so that's going to be, mu zero I divided by 8 I d in k hat direction on the left hand side. So here, that's going to be mu 0 i+i is 2i, and then that's going to be I divided by piid, pi times d in minus k hat direction. And in here, so that's going to be, Okay.

So so that's going to be mu 0 I divided by 8 by d in k hat direction. So if we take 2 parallel lines, oh, just like that, so they are in opposite direction. So one of them is up and the other is down. So it's going to be up and the other is down. The magnetic fields will be, stronger here, like, between the lines.

So the magnetic field is stronger, and the magnetic field will be, less stronger or less, I mean, it's weaker, outside of these two wires. So so work we say that, so the way that so if these parallel lines are, you know, in opposite direction, opposite current directions, then this portion is going to have high magnetic fields. This and, similarly, if they have if they are showing in, the same direction, same direction, Same current direction, all the parallel wires. So this portion will be a weak Magnetic field. So this is, so this portion is, let's say, this is high magnetic field, and these are low magnetic fields and low magnetic fields.

Similarly, so for example, if I take a look, all this setup with, from this side, and meaning that, this is this I one, and that is I 2. So I one is into the page. This is I one, and then that is a pitch like this. So the magnetic fields created by I one will be in this direction. So this is, let's say, b 1, and then here is going to be like that, b 1.

Right? Yep. So, so what about b 2? B 2 will have also a magnetic field in this direction and then magnetic field in that direction feature. And similarly, if I extend this, so that's going to be b 1 in this direction.

And then if I extend this 1 in here, that's going to be b 2 in this direction. It's going further away, so the magnitude will be. So, so this is less, and this is more, or this is low magnetic fields. This is high magnetic field and low magnetic field. And, so one of the practical usage of this, like coaxial cable or, some computer cables, so which I have a picture in our book.

Yeah. So, for example, the computer cables have have a setup. Snatch that. There's an external, there's there are 2 wires technically. So a single, cable has 2 main wires that have, like, the one of the, the wires is the current is flowing in the opposite direction.

Should have another picture. Oh, a coaxial cable. Nope. Sure that if this and that, And a coaxial cable Okay. So we can also talk about so for for the wires that are parallel to each other and and but going in the opposite direction, I one and I two.

So there are some forces between, among them. Since there's a so let's say the distance from here to here, let's call this, r, so this distance. So what is the magnetic field of the first one onto the second file. Yeah. So it's going to be in which direction.

Hang your nose. And color. B 1. So I'm gonna call this b 1. So what is b 1?

B 1 is b 0 I 1 I r. And what of the other one? So that's going to be in here. Is it in or out? Out.

Right. So that's going to be a point. So this will be b 2, which is mu 0i2 divided by 2 pi r. So we know that, from our previous chapter, if if a wire is under magnetic field like this, for example, this current carrying wire, then we know that f is equal to I l cross b. Right?

So there's a force acting on it, on this one. So I'm gonna call this f 21, so which is the second wire is applying on the first one. So that's going to be I l. L is the distance, so I'm gonna just call this l. Although it is very large, I'm gonna keep it as l.

So it's going to be, l times. So it's going to be the the current itself, I one times l times the magnetic field. Mu0i2 divided by 2 pi r. And similarly, so and then, let's just find out the magnitude. F12 will be, again, i2timeslmu0i2 I 1 sorry.

I 1 divided by 2 pi r, And we know that f 12 and f 21 will be action reaction pairs. So from here, f, this is l cross, like I cross b. So this one. So you are looking at I and I, so magnetic field is our page. The force acting on this one is f 21.

And on this one where this is I one and that is I 2, and the magnetic field is like this. And that's going to be in the other direction, which is this f 12. What if we have so if we have a scenario the second scenario is, let's say, they have the same direction, I 2 and I 1. So in this case, let's just look into what changes here. So I one will, again, will apply a magnetic field like this, b 1, which is mu0i1 divided by 2 pi r.

And the force acting on this will be so it's the, the current is different here. So the magnetic field is the same. So the force acting on this will be f 12 will be in this direction. And similarly we'll apply a magnetic field to b 2. So if you compare these 2, the current is the same, but the magnetic field is reversed.

That means the the force acting on this will be f 21 will be again in the opposite direction. It's flipped. But they always have the same relation, which is f 12 is equal to minus f 21. So, so if directions are opposite, so opposite currents will repel or push, and same directional currents will attract or pull each other. K?

So so the this for us. So we are thinking of, you know, infinitely large wires and the distance between them is r. So the pulse is, whether it's pushing or pulling, it doesn't matter for the time being for that's going to be muse. So it's going to be l times mu 0i1i2 divided by 2 pi r. So since l is sort of like infinity or, like, very large, you can always come up with so if this is very large, then the force is very large, but the ratio is not that large.

So if you take the ratio, this is mu0i1i2 divided by 2 pi r. So that is the post per length. Okay. Okay. So, my question to you is, so if I give you so so what's the information so far?

So this is infinitely long. So and if I am r distance away, so what is the magnetic field here? And you will say, okay. This is the current I. The magnitude is mu 0 I divided by 2 pi r.

So if I take the infinite wire, I'll cut by half. So I cut the wire by half, but I let go, like, infinitely long in one side. So I'm gonna call this semi infinite. And then from this here, our distance away. So what is the magnetic field?

Okay. Semi infinite all in jet and surely one over 2 times mu zero I divided by 2 pi r digits. For example, so if you come across so this is an infinite long wire, and then this is coming from infinity, and then it's going to infinity. And then you are here. What is the magnetic field at this point?

Yeah. This plus infinity and then this plus infinity. So this one creates a magnetic field of I'm gonna call this 1. So this b one will be mu zero I divided by 4 pi r. And this one also I'm gonna call this feature mu0i divided by 4pi r.

So what about the guys here? That should. And the phonewordability chain for minimus nativism. If we go up so this this was our formula, this one. I'm gonna copy and paste this.

So we know for example, so we know this guy from minus a to plus a. The magnitude is, mu zero I divided by 4 pi times 2 a divided by x and then x squared plus a squared. K? So this is from the middle. That's x distance away.

And then, so here, if I cut this in half like this, so this magnetic field will be mu zero I divided by 4 pi 2 a x x squared plus a squared and times 1 over 2. It's just the half of it. Sky Page and Astronomy. Sky is going to create a magnetic field like this, and this guy is going to create a magnetic field like this. So they are all in the same direction.

B 1 plus b 2 plus b 3 plus b 4. So that's going to be mu zero I divided by 4pi r times 2. So this is b 1 plus feature. So twice of this guy, 1 half mu0i2a divided by 4 pi x and x squared plus a squared. So those cancels out.

So those thing cancel out. So, you know, whatever comes up from here. And this thing is much smaller than this, but we should we should add this up. So this thing is b 3+4. Yes.

Infinitely long



So in this picture, what we are looking at, here is a circular ring, and that circular ring has current, and that current is creating a magnetic field from the center to from the a a point from the center, and it's x distance away. So, the the question is, so we have So we have this setup. Vulnerable. Yeah. I'm sure that I can get you.

So it a current is coming through the circular wire and then leaves the circular wire like this. And a point which is from the center of the circle, x distance away, that point is point p. What is the magnetic field at point p? Pain of the on our peers. So, so here, so from the side view, what we are looking here is basically this this is the wire, and this is x distance away.

So what what was our formula? So the magnetic field created by a piece of dl. So the the, little bit of magnetic field is created by, the current carrying wire, which is dl length times rhat divided by r squared. So that's our formula. So that little piece of d l is the d l length here on this wire.

So if so this is the DL. And if we are drawing a length here, so this is going to be our r, the distance r. And so we know, for example, this is our d l coming, so this is the current coming in towards us, and d l cross r is going to be a so imagine, one of the vector is like that, and the other vector is like that. So this is our r hat direction. This is the l direction.

So if you cross this if you do a cross multiplication, there should be a direction like direction which is perpendicular to both of them. So this is the direction of DB. So so this is the, so this is the direction of our little magnetic field. So how are we going to deal with this? So first of all, let's figure out the, let's just say we it will have 2 different magnitudes.

Right? So one of the components will be I'm gonna call this dby, and the other will be dbx. Since we are dealing with vectors, and this is d b x and d b y are the 2 components of those 2 vectors. Okay. So so we are going to employ this formula.

How are we going to do it? So since the the so what is dlcrossrhat? So we try to figure out the magnitude of this since we know the direction. And so that will be dl times r times the angle between them. So so this is the magnitude.

So r hat, the magnitude of the angle, which is sine 90. Right? So this is the angle between these two vectors, and that's going to give you just help. Yeah. And as soon as stops Okay.

So I'm gonna leave it as d out here. So if I wanna write so let me just give some angles to it. So since the angle is given as theta like this so from this picture, so this angle is not theta. This is theta. This is not theta, and this is theta.

Okay? So dbx is db times cosine theta, and db y will be db times db y is db times sine theta. Right? So what we need to do is we have to do an integration to find the magnetic field in x direction. And when we do this d b y, we will find the magnitude of the, the magnetic field in y direction.

Okay. So so let's figure out the d b x or let's just try to figure out d b y first. So what is d b y? So if you pick different points along this wire, that what you will see is dby. So imagine so this is our wire, and this is x distance away.

So any point that, well, what basically is our DB is like this, and this is actually rotating on this cone, this DB. So if you pick, like, different points here, that's the magnetic field that will be rotating on this cone. So here, whenever you have a d b y in this direction, you will get a d b y in that direction. So these will cancel out, so you will get 0. If you do the integration, you will get 0 as well.

Okay. So, so now this will be 0 because if you pick this point dl, that's a magnetic field. And if you pick, for example, this dl, the magnetic field will be in this direction, dB. And that will be in that direction, and then this will okay. So, so the only nonzero values will be from the x direction.

So let's figure that out. What is our formula? Again, d b y d b x is d b times cosine theta. So what is d b? That is mu zero times I divided by 4 pi times dl divided by r squared and cosine theta.

So this is our dbx. So let's do an integration. So if we integrate it and we can also write cosine theta, from the setup. So what is cosine theta? So if I call this direction to be y, this is x.

This is r. Cosine is y divided by r or, so let's just take this to be a. This this is the radius. So let's just take this to be a here. So cosine theta here be, a divided by r.

So this thing will be cosine theta will be a divided by r. So let's write it that way. Okay. Mu zero I four pi dlrsquarea divided by little r. Okay.

So we are taking an integration, and the integration is from DL. So the question here is, if you change DL, does our change? So that means that all this this is that is not going to be dependent on l, and a is a constant. So these guys are also constant. So you can take all of these out of integrate.

Right? So that is the strategy. So here, db, or b in x direction will be mu zero I times a divided by 4pi r cube and d l. So what do you get from this? So remember, d l is we have the circle.

There's a little piece of the length we have. So if I integrate, I'm going to get the circumference of this. So what is the l integration? 2 pi times a. So we're gonna get 2 pi times a here.

And at the end, that 2 pi a is going to be canceling out. So it means your I a, another 2 pi a divided by 4 pi r cube, and, so 2 pi cancels with this, so I get a 2 here. So that's going to be mizeroi times a square divided by r cube. Okay. So I can write also in terms of, since, since this is x, this is a, this is little r, I can write this in terms of x as well, which is going to be a times a square a square.

So I should get a 2 here. So there's there's a 2 here. And 2, r cube, r cube is a square plus x square three halves. Alright. So that's our answer, actually.

This is the final answer that we have. So whenever you have a piece of circular current or circular wire. And if you are takes distance away, the magnetic fields that this one creating So let's say we are x distance away. The magnetic field is in this direction, x direction, and that's going to be majora I a square divided by 2 a square plus x square 3 halves. Okay.

So most of the time, you will never use this. Wow. 10% or 5% of the questions you might use expression. So what if x goes to 0? So the expression that we have would be so is the magnetic field going to be 0?

Alright. So when x is equal to, 0, that means mu0i times a squared divided by 2, a squared plus 0 squared in halves. So you're gonna get mu zero I a square divided by 2 a q. So if you cancel this out, mu zero I divided by 2 a. So that is the magnetic field at the center.

So at the center, this is the magnetic field and which is equal to the radius here. Or you can just say I divided by 2 times the radius. So this a or the radius, capital r. Let's say we can I can show it like this? So this is one of the main formulas that you'll be using.

Field at the center. Okay? So, okay. So this is the this is the formula that we're gonna use. And so if you look, for example, to what that means, if a current is coming in here, the magnetic field that is created in at the center will be looking towards us, and that magnetic field is proportional to the radius, or I'm gonna just say, like, capital r here, meter or I divided by 2 r or 2 a.

Okay. And the direction is you will always find it with your right hand So, should they So this is a wire. But we also talked about infinite wire, current coming in towards goes towards infinity. And then, let's say, if you are r distance away and the magnetic field is now is rotating here. So this is the magnetic field, b.

So that b was measure I divided by 2 pi times little Okay. Mhmm. So we will also use this, information. So this is the the current I, and the current is revolving like this. This is a circular wire, and this is infinitely long wire, which has a value 0 to my r.

And Say awesome. Coil. So then 0 I divided by 2 a. Checked in the form Alright. So having said that, I'm gonna give you another so so far about this Maxwell's equations, what do we know?

So the first Maxwell equation is our Gauss law. What was it that it that was e times d a will be equal to q n over epsilon 0. And And the second equation was, again, the Gauss law for for magnetic fields. So if we write the same thing for the magnetic fields, we will always get 0. So now our third one will be Ampere's law law, which is, basically how you can calculate sometimes the magnetic field of a system and which will give times some length.

Now we do a dot product in a closed loop. That's equal to mu0i enclosed divided by mu zero I enclosed. Right? So here, this is again, this thing here is, this is a line integral starting from, let's say, a to a. So it's a closed loop integration, and d l is the length, and I enclosed is the enclosed or the amount of amount of current enclosed by this loop.

So this is the Ampere's law, and, so is a constant. We know. And here what do we know so far? So we know, for example, the magnetic field, from a little piece of current carrying wire is given as like this. Right?

So when you look at here, for example right? So here, this is mean 0, and this is current, I. And this whole thing is just length divided by length, cube, actually, here. So this is going to be 1 over, length square, something like this. That's so not this is not the cube, r square.

Sorry. So it's going to be just length. So this is the magnetic field. So here, magnetic field times length is actually equal to mu zero times I, so which is the formula here. So b times d l is equal to mu zero times I.

So, the first way of writing this or implementing this is imagine we have a current of a infinitely long wire infinitely long wire. So what I wanna do is I wanna look into a magnetic field here. So if we this is, let's say, r distance away. So what I know is previously what I know, this should give me b should be equal to mizeroi divided by So here, so so we know this is the answer. So let's just, redo or recalculate the magnetic field with Ampere's law.

Right. So how do we do this? So how do we use this type of, integration? So what we are looking here is, so if I look from the top view so what I'm looking here is there is a current coming out of the the surface now. Let's say like this.

I'm trying to figure out what is the magnetic field here. So what I, know is so what I need to do is not this one. Okay. So let's follow this. So what I'm trying to do is I want to draw this path.

So this is this path now what I have drawn. So this is a circular or closed path. So the the first step is drawing this. The next step is, figuring out what the magnetic field direction is. So here, the next step will be trying to figure out what the magnetic field direction is.

So it's going to be here like this. So if I look into this point, magnetic field will be like this, and the magnetic field will be like this. So it's revolving or circulating on this red circle. So the next thing that we want to do is b dot dl. So what is dl?

Dl is the little bit of length here. So this if you look into this point, this is our DL. If you look into this point, this is our DL vector. Okay. So at each point so this is a dot product, b times d l times cosine theta.

So that theta is 0 degrees. So here, this is b times d l. That's what we get from this. Next step is do this for for the entire loop. So that means, so we do this from the entire loop.

Start from here and goes, and go to a full circle and stop here. So at each point, we always the same thing here. Okay. So the next step is the is b constant. So I'm gonna say it's yes, and then you will ask why.

So because, because we are always r distance away away from the current. So b magnetic field can be taken out of the integral b. So what is the l? Whole little b. Length of this red wire or red circular loop.

So that's it's not a wire circular. Oops. Sorry. So it's going to be b times 2 pi times whatever the, radius is, 2 pi r. So the left hand side here, the left hand side will be b times 2 pi r.

So, so far, what we have done is, we are trying to do this. B.a0 is equal to so this is b times 2 pi r, and this is equal to m zero times I enclosed. So I enclosed means that, you know here, so that's going to be just I. So it's going to be measured times I. So this thing equal to that, and b magnetic field will be mu zero I divided by 2 pi r.

Hence, what we were expecting this result. So, for example, if you have, let's say, currents I 3, let's say, I 2, and then, let's say, I 1 here. And the d l like this. So this is my d l. So here, b times d l is going to be mu 0i enclosed.

So I enclosed means here is that I 1+i2minusi3. So this is some type of a constant or some type of a not a flux, but, there's something within that red circle. But in here, we cannot really take out the b here because b is not constant. But, nevertheless, if you ever were asked what would be the right hand side of this integration, that's going to be this result. Alright.

So here, for example, let's just do this, with, so for example, if in this case, let's say, I 1+i2andi3, let's say, let's just equal to 0. So that means that doesn't really mean the magnetic field is 0, but that means b dot dl is 0. So imagine, for example, a picture like this. So these are both infinitely long ones. So these are infinitely long wires.

So what we see here, this Ampere's law, what does Ampere's law tell us about this, is, so this is going to be b dotdl is equal to mi0i enclosed. So in here, this will be mi0i minus I, which will be 0 here. At the end, what we get is going to be 0. So when we think about for example, the the the positive current I, and then, so here, let's say the magnetic field is in this direction. So b dot dl is, let's say, a small theta, but here, there's going to be a minus theta here.

So these two things will cancel out. So this will you will get a positive quantity from here and and and the negative quantity from there. So and, similarly, if you get a positive theta here, then you will get a negative theta there, and these 2 will cancel out. And these 2 send this one, for example, is going to cancel out with this one. Right?

Because this one is positive. On the left hand side, this is a positive quantity, and that's so this is a positive quantity. That's a negative quantity. So everything will have this theta and then, again, minus theta here. Again, here, minus theta.

This is theta. So so like, just just that, it so, for example, if you get, for example, plus 1.2, and then you will get 1 this 1.2 from here. So plus 9, minus 9, and then all those things. And then if you add them up, you're gonna get 0. But that doesn't mean magnetic field is It, so a similar picture that I'm gonna show you, as a last, example will be like this.

For example, this one. So for example, this scenario is, so we have our wire like this coming in. The the current is coming in like that. For example, if I want to pick my DL to be like this. So this is my DL.

K. So I will find since there is no enclosed, I enclosed is 0 here within this dl, here and here. So dl goes like this, like, in this path. So, for example, on the right hand side, I enclosed will be 0. So that means also b.dl should be equal to 0 here.

So if you look into this part, for example, the magnetic field will be in this direction. So the magnetic field will be in this direction, and it will be like, a circular path like this. So the magnetic field will be something like this, magnetic field. And, also, here, the magnetic field will be like this. So I'm gonna call this b 1, and I'm gonna call this b 2.

But here, this part so I'm gonna just take a look into this. So this part is going to give me right? Because DL so, basically, magnetic field is like this. So magnetic field is like that, and DL will be like this always. So it's 180 degrees.

And in here, they are parallel. For example, so this is d l. So in this case, d l and the magnetic field here, b b 2, will be always parallel. So in this one, you will always get positive. So these positives and the those negatives, if you add them up, so here, you know, positive 1.2, minus 1.2 or something like that.

You know, if you add those up, you will get 0. Here, magnetic field is perpendicular. So you get a 0 here, and you get 0 here. B.pl will be 0. So what does this tell tell us?

So that doesn't, so first of all, there's blue and so this I'm gonna just put here. So this, so positive part is this portion, and negative part of this portion. So if you add them up, you will get 0. This doesn't mean that the magnetic fields are not there, but this it just means that



So what is the magnetic field? What is the magnetic field of an infinitely long wire in the inside and outside. So, so we have this infinite long wire, let's say, like this, I. So what we know is, let's say, so this infinitely long wire this long wire is a cylinder with radius, let's say, capital r. So when this, little r is greater than capital r, that means we are outside of the the wire.

So what we can do is, this is our I and this is r. And what we need to do is we draw we draw a dl like this. So this is our dl, and then we are r distance away. So b dot dl. So what we get from here, that's b times dl times cosine 0, and magnetic field is constant.

So b times dl. So dl is 2 pi times little r. And on the right hand side, mu times I enclosed. So that is going to be equal to mu times I and mu times I. So the magnetic field outside of the sphere, which is, outside of the the wire, is going to be equal to m0 I divided by 2 pi r.

So this is outside. Yeah. And in this time, So if we, sketch this So, for example, if we sketch this mu 0 I divided by 2 pi r. So what does it look like? This is r, so it's going to be be increasing, increasing, and increasing, but it's not gonna go to infinity.

Right? So it's not going to go to infinity because this will have a capital r here, which is so this is the wire, and the wire has capital r radius. And if you are here, this little r here so on this little r. So let me just so what is the magnetic field here? The magnetic field here is I divided by 2 pi little r, and that's the r.

But, this has a certain radius. This, you know, this is a cylinder, this wire. And at this point, for example, the magnetic field will be equal to so what is the magnetic field at little r equals capital r? So that's going to be 0 I divided by 2 pi capital r. So that is the the value here.

So it's not gonna go to infinity. So it's gonna come to some constant value here, and that's going to be at the border. Right. So that's the answer. Nice.

Okay. Okay. Next time, I will also try. So here, this was the, again, the cylinder that we had talked about like this. And if you are r distance away, that is measure I divided by 2 pi little r.

But if you are, let's say, r distance capital r distance away, that's going to be measure I divided by 2 pi little r. And little r is the radius of the cylinder. Okay. So, what's going to and the direction is always like that. So what's going to happen when, this little r is less than capital r?

That means we are inside the wire, And the wire is cylindrical and cylindrical. This each are the key by. So if I look into a top view so imagine this is the the wire itself, and this is capital r. So what I'm looking in here is, what I need to do is this I enclosed, that's equal to b.dl. That's how I'm going to find the magnetic field inside.

So if I pick my dl to be like this so this is my dl, like that. And what is here, I enclosed within this portion. So what is I enclosed here? Enclosed this, shaver. So if, so this has this little r, little r here.

So I enclosed. So if I say I zero is the total total current, so I enclosed divided by the total current will be equal to the area of the enclosed region and the total area. So so the area will be pi times little r square. The total area will be pi times capital r square. So it's the ratio of the r squares.

So what I need is I enclosed is equal to I zero little r squared divided by capital r squared. So this information is going to be fed into here. Okay? So mu zero times I zero little r squared divided by capital r squared. So in here, I'm going to calculate b dot d l one more time.

And the steps are, again, what is the direction of the magnetic field? The magnetic field is like this b. It's circulating on the loop. So that is b. And that means it is always that is b.

Why do I know that is b? Because the current is in this direction. So here, again, b times dl times cosine 0. This is equal to 1, and this is constant. You can take out the integral.

So that's going to be b times dl. So and then this is going to be 2 pi little r. And on the right hand side, mu zero I r squared divided by capital r squared. So So here, R square, capital R square is equal to b times 2 pi times little r. So what cancels out?

So one of the r cancels out and the rest is the same. And the magnetic field inside will be, which is r less than capital R, is equal to mu 0 I divided by 2 pi r square times little r. So it's a functional r, so that means the magnetic field up to the capital r is going to be a linear function. This will be so here, the value of this one will be equal to mazeroi divided by 2 pi capital r. So this is inside.

So what about outside? And outside goes like this. Means 0 I divided by 2 pi, little r. Put the key formula there, and we'll solve it to chart the audio record ID. So what we are going to discuss is the magnetic field a sole no need.

So I'm going to take this picture, paste it here. Another yeah. So that's what I need. So this is Solenoid, for example. It's about.

Okay. So we are going to find the magnetic field of, a solenoid. So why do we need, solenoid? Because we because a single circle is not enough, so we want to repeat. But once we repeat it, we can increase the magnitude.

And so we know, from, just a single line or, like, single circle here. So what we know is if you have a wire like this, the current y, there will be a magnetic field out of the wire, which is equal to me 0 I divided by 2 times this radius r. Or I'm gonna just say, like, capital r like this. 2 r. We we don't have 2 pi here.

Is so we want to find so if, for example, if we have bunch of wires like this, you know, circular wires, Is the magnetic field going to be n times I divided by 2 r or something else? So let's just keep that in mind. And down Oh, so the solenoid itself is you get to a single, like, wire here, and then, you keep, you know, rotating it like this. And then you take the wire out, so the current coming in and current going out are a single wire. So what we need is this picture.

So in order to calculate this, we need this b dot dl. Here, mu zero times I enclosed. So let's figure out. So let's, so this picture, this one, Okay. So our d l is this.

So this is our d l. So it goes like this and goes to a rectangle like this and goes like that. So here, how do we calculate the right hand side? So what is the right hand side tells us? That's going to be times I, but we don't know how many of them.

Right? So I can just say here I times n, like, however many turns. So, like, how many turns? Number of turns here. And so that's the right hand side.

So what about the left hand side? So the magnetic field, again, let's emphasize on this. The magnetic field direction here is in this direction. So here, the trick here is the magnetic field here. So, so these are the wires that we have like that.

So the trick is when we are doing our dl, so it's a rectangle like this, and this is the center, but this is, like, very far away. And I know that the magnetic field here will be in this direction. Magnetic field is like this. Magnetic field is like that. You know, it's going to be so let's keep it like this.

So here, this magnetic field is going to be 0 because it's, like, very far away. So remember, why I can take this to be 0? So remember, a single, going in and going out of wires, so the magnetic field here will be, like, max. And very far away, it sort of cancels itself out. So the magnetic field, you can take this to be 0.

So here, so let's call this, side 1, and then this will be side 2, side 3, and side 4. So when we are doing b dottl so we will be doing b.tl for 1 and plus for 2 and 3 and 4. 3 and 4. So, rather easy one is this one. D l is the same direction here.

So that is, what we get from here is b times d l, and then this takes out of the integral, b d l, and this will be just the length of this wire or the not the wire, it's the the path. So what we get from the first part, b dot the l is b times l. And so in the second and the third, no, second and the fourth. So the magnetic field is in this direction, and dl is in this direction. In the 4th one, the magnetic field, so this one, for example, this one creates a magnetic field like this in this direction, this one in that direction.

But, so, yes. So it's going to be always like perpendicular. So d l is in this direction, and magnetic field is in this direction. So these are cosine 90, which gives us 0. So here, this one and that one is going to give us 0.

And the third one is the one that is the magnetic field is 0 itself. So it's going to be 0 plus 0 plus 0, which is this is coming from the 4th one. And in the 4th one so in the 4th one, magnetic field itself is 0 times d l, and that's going to be a 0 anyway. So what we get here is b times l. And that's equal to m zero times I enclosed, which is I times n.

Okay. So, it's just that the magnetic field is equal to mu 0 I n divided by l, and l being the length of the solenoid. So this is l. This is l, and this is n is number of turns. So, similarly, I can write this thing as m0i n divided by l.

So it's number of turns per length. So that's the magnetic field inside the solenoid. We have to increase the current. We have to increase n. So these two things should be increased, but l should be this this, decreased.

So how is that possible? So here, in reality, it kinda looks like this. So here, this one. Maybe I'll be telling. So another way of writing this will be, this n divided by l can be written as little n.

So this is number of terms per length. So you can write it like this. So the magnetic, field will be mu zero I times little n. But in reality, it doesn't really go up to n here. So this is the maximum.

So, like, in theory or in the ideal case, that's the the thing. But that means the magnetic field. So in this case, for example, when the length is 4 a and the radius or the diameter is 2 a, so when those things are comparable, the this one, the maximum magnetic field will be here. That magnetic field will be less than m times I. This one.

And then that is also decreasing as you go towards the, to the edge. Yeah. Shoot picture. And So this is true when the radius is much less than l, and the magnetic field will be mu zero I times little n. So we wanna make sure that the radius so this is, let's say, capital r or diameter or this little r.

So there's a little r. This is length. So we wanna make sure that length is much, much greater than r.



So what is the magnetic field? What is the magnetic field of an infinitely long wire in the inside and outside. So, so we have this infinite long wire, let's say, like this, I. So what we know is, let's say, so this infinitely long wire this long wire is a cylinder with radius, let's say, capital r. So when this, little r is greater than capital r, that means we are outside of the the wire.

So what we can do is, this is our I and this is r. And what we need to do is we draw we draw a dl like this. So this is our dl, and then we are r distance away. So b dot dl. So what we get from here, that's b times dl times cosine 0, and magnetic field is constant.

So b times dl. So dl is 2 pi times little r. And on the right hand side, mu times I enclosed. So that is going to be equal to mu times I and mu times I. So the magnetic field outside of the sphere, which is, outside of the the wire, is going to be equal to m0 I divided by 2 pi r.

So this is outside. Yeah. And in this time, So if we, sketch this So, for example, if we sketch this mu 0 I divided by 2 pi r. So what does it look like? This is r, so it's going to be be increasing, increasing, and increasing, but it's not gonna go to infinity.

Right? So it's not going to go to infinity because this will have a capital r here, which is so this is the wire, and the wire has capital r radius. And if you are here, this little r here so on this little r. So let me just so what is the magnetic field here? The magnetic field here is I divided by 2 pi little r, and that's the r.

But, this has a certain radius. This, you know, this is a cylinder, this wire. And at this point, for example, the magnetic field will be equal to so what is the magnetic field at little r equals capital r? So that's going to be 0 I divided by 2 pi capital r. So that is the the value here.

So it's not gonna go to infinity. So it's gonna come to some constant value here, and that's going to be at the border. Right. So that's the answer. Nice.

Okay. Okay. Next time, I will also try. So here, this was the, again, the cylinder that we had talked about like this. And if you are r distance away, that is measure I divided by 2 pi little r.

But if you are, let's say, r distance capital r distance away, that's going to be measure I divided by 2 pi little r. And little r is the radius of the cylinder. Okay. So, what's going to and the direction is always like that. So what's going to happen when, this little r is less than capital r?

That means we are inside the wire, And the wire is cylindrical and cylindrical. This each are the key by. So if I look into a top view so imagine this is the the wire itself, and this is capital r. So what I'm looking in here is, what I need to do is this I enclosed, that's equal to b.dl. That's how I'm going to find the magnetic field inside.

So if I pick my dl to be like this so this is my dl, like that. And what is here, I enclosed within this portion. So what is I enclosed here? Enclosed this, shaver. So if, so this has this little r, little r here.

So I enclosed. So if I say I zero is the total total current, so I enclosed divided by the total current will be equal to the area of the enclosed region and the total area. So so the area will be pi times little r square. The total area will be pi times capital r square. So it's the ratio of the r squares.

So what I need is I enclosed is equal to I zero little r squared divided by capital r squared. So this information is going to be fed into here. Okay? So mu zero times I zero little r squared divided by capital r squared. So in here, I'm going to calculate b dot d l one more time.

And the steps are, again, what is the direction of the magnetic field? The magnetic field is like this b. It's circulating on the loop. So that is b. And that means it is always that is b.

Why do I know that is b? Because the current is in this direction. So here, again, b times dl times cosine 0. This is equal to 1, and this is constant. You can take out the integral.

So that's going to be b times dl. So and then this is going to be 2 pi little r. And on the right hand side, mu zero I r squared divided by capital r squared. So So here, R square, capital R square is equal to b times 2 pi times little r. So what cancels out?

So one of the r cancels out and the rest is the same. And the magnetic field inside will be, which is r less than capital R, is equal to mu 0 I divided by 2 pi r square times little r. So it's a functional r, so that means the magnetic field up to the capital r is going to be a linear function. This will be so here, the value of this one will be equal to mazeroi divided by 2 pi capital r. So this is inside.

So what about outside? And outside goes like this. Means 0 I divided by 2 pi, little r. Put the key formula there, and we'll solve it to chart the audio record ID. So what we are going to discuss is the magnetic field a sole no need.

So I'm going to take this picture, paste it here. Another yeah. So that's what I need. So this is Solenoid, for example. It's about.

Okay. So we are going to find the magnetic field of, a solenoid. So why do we need, solenoid? Because we because a single circle is not enough, so we want to repeat. But once we repeat it, we can increase the magnitude.

And so we know, from, just a single line or, like, single circle here. So what we know is if you have a wire like this, the current y, there will be a magnetic field out of the wire, which is equal to me 0 I divided by 2 times this radius r. Or I'm gonna just say, like, capital r like this. 2 r. We we don't have 2 pi here.

Is so we want to find so if, for example, if we have bunch of wires like this, you know, circular wires, Is the magnetic field going to be n times I divided by 2 r or something else? So let's just keep that in mind. And down Oh, so the solenoid itself is you get to a single, like, wire here, and then, you keep, you know, rotating it like this. And then you take the wire out, so the current coming in and current going out are a single wire. So what we need is this picture.

So in order to calculate this, we need this b dot dl. Here, mu zero times I enclosed. So let's figure out. So let's, so this picture, this one, Okay. So our d l is this.

So this is our d l. So it goes like this and goes to a rectangle like this and goes like that. So here, how do we calculate the right hand side? So what is the right hand side tells us? That's going to be times I, but we don't know how many of them.

Right? So I can just say here I times n, like, however many turns. So, like, how many turns? Number of turns here. And so that's the right hand side.

So what about the left hand side? So the magnetic field, again, let's emphasize on this. The magnetic field direction here is in this direction. So here, the trick here is the magnetic field here. So, so these are the wires that we have like that.

So the trick is when we are doing our dl, so it's a rectangle like this, and this is the center, but this is, like, very far away. And I know that the magnetic field here will be in this direction. Magnetic field is like this. Magnetic field is like that. You know, it's going to be so let's keep it like this.

So here, this magnetic field is going to be 0 because it's, like, very far away. So remember, why I can take this to be 0? So remember, a single, going in and going out of wires, so the magnetic field here will be, like, max. And very far away, it sort of cancels itself out. So the magnetic field, you can take this to be 0.

So here, so let's call this, side 1, and then this will be side 2, side 3, and side 4. So when we are doing b dottl so we will be doing b.tl for 1 and plus for 2 and 3 and 4. 3 and 4. So, rather easy one is this one. D l is the same direction here.

So that is, what we get from here is b times d l, and then this takes out of the integral, b d l, and this will be just the length of this wire or the not the wire, it's the the path. So what we get from the first part, b dot the l is b times l. And so in the second and the third, no, second and the fourth. So the magnetic field is in this direction, and dl is in this direction. In the 4th one, the magnetic field, so this one, for example, this one creates a magnetic field like this in this direction, this one in that direction.

But, so, yes. So it's going to be always like perpendicular. So d l is in this direction, and magnetic field is in this direction. So these are cosine 90, which gives us 0. So here, this one and that one is going to give us 0.

And the third one is the one that is the magnetic field is 0 itself. So it's going to be 0 plus 0 plus 0, which is this is coming from the 4th one. And in the 4th one so in the 4th one, magnetic field itself is 0 times d l, and that's going to be a 0 anyway. So what we get here is b times l. And that's equal to m zero times I enclosed, which is I times n.

Okay. So, it's just that the magnetic field is equal to mu 0 I n divided by l, and l being the length of the solenoid. So this is l. This is l, and this is n is number of turns. So, similarly, I can write this thing as m0i n divided by l.

So it's number of turns per length. So that's the magnetic field inside the solenoid. We have to increase the current. We have to increase n. So these two things should be increased, but l should be this this, decreased.

So how is that possible? So here, in reality, it kinda looks like this. So here, this one. Maybe I'll be telling. So another way of writing this will be, this n divided by l can be written as little n.

So this is number of terms per length. So you can write it like this. So the magnetic, field will be mu zero I times little n. But in reality, it doesn't really go up to n here. So this is the maximum.

So, like, in theory or in the ideal case, that's the the thing. But that means the magnetic field. So in this case, for example, when the length is 4 a and the radius or the diameter is 2 a, so when those things are comparable, the this one, the maximum magnetic field will be here. That magnetic field will be less than m times I. This one.

And then that is also decreasing as you go towards the, to the edge. Yeah. Shoot picture. And So this is true when the radius is much less than l, and the magnetic field will be mu zero I times little n. So we wanna make sure that the radius so this is, let's say, capital r or diameter or this little r.

So there's a little r. This is length. So we wanna make sure that length is much, much greater than r.
So what is the magnetic field of of So solenoid looks like yeah. Lights this. Let me take this picture and copy and paste. It looks like this. So it is, what is it?

This is a new 0 I n divided by l. So l is the length, and n is the number of turns. So what we do is we take the solenoid and then, take this end and take this end and make it to a circle. Something like this. So that's what we are going to do.

So, again, what we are trying to calculate is the magnetic field within the, within this geometry. So there's a magnetic field here which we are going to call b. So if we sort of think, like let's just think that, so how is this going to be? This one, this magnetic field should have me 0 and I. And so if we look at here, this is the length of it, and this is the number of turns.

So this can be also like number of turns divided by the length. So if I write this, that's going to be measure I. What's the number of turns? I'm gonna put n here. And what is the length of this?

So that's going to be 2 pi r where this r is the radius here. K? So let's do this. The way that we calculate this is, actually using Ampere's law. So Ampere's law was you identify a d l path and multiply b with that, and that's going to be means 0 I enclosed.

So our path here is this much. So let's just take that this is our path here in this direction. And so this is the L. So, so what we have here is So let's show this with a red color. So this is r d l.

Like so this is rotating. And and then the enclosed, the number of, let's say, the wires that is inside will be like this. And show the cross sectional conditioner. And check-in the case team is the one. This elite demonstrate.

So what should be, the right hand side of this? So this is the number of the the current that is within the So I'm gonna write enclosed will be n times I zero. It has I zero current. So that's the right hand side of the equation. And what about the left hand side?

So I should, find the direction of the magnetic field with this. So let's say, at this point, what is the direction of the magnetic field? So if I draw like this, is that going to be a problem? So every point here has magnetic field, and it is rotating like this in this direction, like that. So at each point, magnetic field and dl will be parallel.

So that means b dotdl is equal to b times dl times cosine 0. So we get rid of the dot product, and this is 1. And since b is constant, I can take that out of the integral. So that's going to be b times dl, and that's going to be m0n times, let's call I 0. And this is constant.

I can take it out of the integral. Constant. So, so this is going to be b d l d l like this. And again, mu zero n times r zero, and this will be 2 pi r. So this is the radius r.

So b should be equal to, and b is equal to me 0 pi. So that is exactly exactly what we were expecting. So new 0 like this. So this will be. And this is the magnetic field within a toroid.

So if you wanna increase the magnetic field, if you want to increase this, you want to increase the current, and you wanna increase n, and you wanna decrease r. So this means, thin wires and and then r is small, meaning that well, thin wires. Yes. That's what it's Alright. So that is, that is the end of Ampere's law, and and those are the the the, the pictures or situations where we can use them, and we don't we don't use extra.

Showed what was the ampere's load. This is BDL is equal to m0i enclosed, and then we use it in infinitely long wire with a current I, and the l is like this. So we use it, and then we use it on solenoid, and we use it on a. Right? Like this.

So those are the actually, what else did we use? So if we think of a wire like this, that's a current coming in. So what was the magnetic field inside all the wires? So we also use that in that, situation. Okay.

So let's go back to so so what was the magnetic field here? It was mean 0 I divided by 2 pi r. Right? And take the sources of the field in to the. What was do you remember the circular ring, the current coming in like this, and then it forms a magnetic field like that?

So and it was, it has a radius. Also, what was that? It is very close to this, but it's not the same. Formula So let's just think of this. So it's a magnetic field of a single loop.

So if you take those loops and then add them up, right, And then you make it a solenoid. L. So the magnetic field inside this b is mu zero I, n divided by l. Okay? So that is the length that we so this is the in the actuality, that's what's happening, which is, sort of not equal to n times mu 0i divided by 2 r.

Okay. So let's, so this is sort of like the summary of an Ampere's law. So I'm gonna give you a definition of, also, at the beginning of our magnetic field. So I'm gonna talk about more magnetometer concept that I will, explain in 5 minutes. So the reason when we have a magnet and then we divide it into 2, that still have n times s and s, and then divide it into 2, still has n s.

And then keep dividing it, and then we just maybe, like, come to it, just a single property. So let's, so in a classical picture, so this is our, nucleus in an atom, and then an electron is revolving around that nucleus. So, for example, this is radius r. So what we know is if if a charge is moving, then that's gonna create a magnetic field. And Right.

So what we know, is, it's actually this this electron is revolving, and, so let's just remind ourselves the magnetic field, m zero, and it was q, and then v cross r hat divided by r square. So that is the main formula of a charge creating a magnetic field. So if a if a charge, for example, moving with velocity d, that is going to create a magnetic field. So what we are here here trying to analyze is, try to maybe, like, figure out what that velocity is. So so the way that we we're not gonna use this one.

We're not gonna use this formula, but what we wanna come up with is this thing is moving on a circular, uniform circular motion. So that means it has some a constant velocity, and that velocity is 2 pi, let's say, r divided by the period. Right? So that is the, that is the velocity. And, so this Bohr magneton is is something that mu is equal to I times a.

So this is current times the area. So if the current is coming through here, the the area like this area. If you multiply these 2, you're gonna get a Bohr magnetron. So you can think that in terms of so this is magnetic moment. This magnetic moment, we can just think it as a very small, let's say, magnet.

Okay. So what is the definition of the current? So it is charge divided by time. Right? So that's the definition of the current.

So this is the charge of the electron divided by the time, which is the period. So in terms of period, I can write here so this period is 2 pi r divided by velocity. So I can write this thing, the electron charge, 2 pi r divided by the velocity, and then velocity comes up. And and this magnetic moment, I times a, is equal to the charge of the electron 2 pi r times the velocity and times the area. So what is the area of this?

This going to be pi r square. So times pi r square, pi cancels out, r cancels. And the the charge of the electron, the velocity times r divided by 22. Right? So that is a, that is a constant.

So here, when we discuss this, we don't really talk about the velocity of electron because that's that's not really a thing. So, so let's remind ourselves in physics 1. We talk about, if anyone can remember this. So this is angular momentum. So if this is going with r and then if this has some m times b momentums, If you multiply these 2, you get an angular momentum.

So this angular momentum is r times mv. So since I have here v times r, I multiply with m and divide it by m, and I'm gonna call this thing as l. So this is the charge of the electron, l divided by 2 m. So this is the magnetic moment, and so in eventual, thing that the in quantum physics, the f is a constant for electron in quantum physics, and then which is equal to, the Planck constant divided by, 2 pi. So let's say a Planck constant.

You don't have to memorize, you know, this. I'm just trying to write in terms of, so this thing, this mu, what I have here is, the charge of the electron, v times m times r or, r times m times 2, divided by 2 m. So I'm gonna call this l, and that l is equal to a hash or h over, 2 pi. So that's going to be the charge of the electron, h divided by 2 pi. So that's going to be 4 pi m.

So this is a constant of or electron. So an electron has some type of magnetic moment, and and then, that is to the minus 24 Tesla. And and that and that magnetic moment, is, is basically the amount of so this is the amount of magnetic field for for that a single electron creates or forms. And push through my. But, not all the materials have the, same property.

So the atoms, we can classify them as ferromagnetic, diamagnetic, and paramagnetic. So I'm gonna tell you what these are 1 by 1. So, so the ferromagnetic ones are iron like. So ferro means iron. So it's like iron, nickel, cobalt, etcetera.

So these are the the atoms that, has this property. So we make magnets from them, the permanent magnets from them. And so so they this type of material keep magnetism magnetism exposed to exposed to external magnetic field. So what does what do we mean by that? So imagine we have this type of magnets, and then I'm gonna draw little arrows like this representing so this little arrow represents this, magnetic moments.

So they sort of look into in every direction. So if you take the same thing and then apply a magnetic field, external magnetic field like this, so they are going to align towards that magnetic field. And then once they align and then even the external magnetic field is 0, they keep the situation like this, so which makes them magnets. Okay. So what is, what is diamagnetism?

So these are materials with, let's say, they, they sort of the magnetic moments, those magnetic moments opposes external fields, and they, and then they are they are not so imagine we have, again, the same picture. The the arrows are looking in every direction, let's say. And then whenever we apply a magnetic field like this, the external. So what they are doing is they are the ultimate, like, conservative reaction going on here, which they sort of oppose in the the magnetic field. So, so in this, say so they oppose the direction, then test unit.

So here, so that what happens is if you take this external magnetic field plus their total, let's say, magnetic field, opposition. So they sort of, like, make it to towards 0. So in paramagnetic, so magnetic dipole moments align align with, align with external magnetic field, but goes away when the external magnetic field is here. So if you sketch this again in nonoriented direction, and then when there's an external magnetic field, they sort of, like, align in that direction when there's an external magnetic field. And then the external magnetic field is 0, and they go back to their own setup, like, in every direction.

So for example, copper is a diamagnetic system. So for diamagnetic, there's a copper. So imagine we have a copper tube here, copper tube here. So what happens if we drop a magnet magnet to a copper? Okay?

So what's happening here is that, the magnetic fields of the magnet is coming in and out like this. So the copper is going to fill, for example, so this is so let me just make a cross section. Couple of the, the walls of the copper. And let's say this is the magnetic field like this, n and s. So what they feel is they are going to feel a magnetic field in this direction.

So that that will be they'll be external. But what they do is they react against it. So they create a magnetic field like this. So which means, so they, they have some sort of, so this is the magnetic field like that. So it's going to be, some, little bit of, let's say, magnets at that moment.

So what they are doing is, maybe I should write it in other direction. So that comes in this way. So they oppose it and that meaning that it is in this direction. And, it's sort of if I take s here let me just let me think about the direction one more time. Has we passed enormous.

So let's imagine okay. Let's imagine this has a magnetic field, like, external in this direction. And then, so it is opposing magnetic field from the diamagnet. So meaning that this sort of looks like a magnet has an opposite polarity like this. So so when we have n s, we don't really rotate it in that direction.

Maybe, let's just say, it is the magnetic field like this. Okay. So in that sense then, it's going to rotate. So the opposition in this direction and then opposition in that direction also is going to create a magnet like this. So what we are seeing is that in this demonstration is and, so this is our magnet here.

So this is the magnet and s, and then there are magnets, which is n s and n s like that. So what's happening is that they have some type of attraction. So this type of attraction, this force is making the magnet this magnet when it is moving down. So the magnet moves slowly inside a copper cube.

Induction. Induction index Okay. So what we know so remember the law, the the second law, second, so, second, Maxwell equation, which is the the Gauss law for magnetic field. So magnetic so so this is magnetic flux. So this is always equal to 0.

This is a magnetic flux. So this is called you can write it like this. Magnetic flux. Flux academic So if the magnetic flux, that flux changes with time so if I take a derivative of this one and that creates an change in the emf. So this is the main formula behind the induction.

So here, for example, so this is EMF. So what it tells us here that the change in magnetic flux, produces potential difference. So the flux was the definition of flux. For example, we have a physical area a, and so this has some type of, let's say, vector. And if a magnetic field is coming in and out of this physical area, like this magnetic flux, we multiply these 2.

So this is in, in general, it's like that. So if, for example, magnetic field is constant, when magnetic field is constant, it is b times a. So this is, again, there are 3 properties here. So, these 2 are b and d a r vectors. Right?

So and it's a dot product. So when I write it times a times cosine theta, so the angle between these two angles, these two vectors. So that's what I'm going to discuss. And so so it has magnetic fields. So magnetic field.

And it has the physical area, and it has the angle. So these three properties, you can change with time. So, the the flux is equal to, so this is magnetic flux, Tesla times meter square divided by time, and that is equal to EMF, which is which is volt. Right? So that is the definition or, like, the unit analysis of this thing.

So you can write Tesla, volt times second divided by meter squared. So another way of writing, the unit. So why there is a negative sign here? So the negative sign, so like this. So this is opposing in a sense.

So it is opposing in the in the direction. And, so it wants to create a magnetic field to so that it cancels the the external magnetic field or something like this. Okay. So now, let's say this is a fixed area a area a, and then, so and magnetic field is into coming into this, field. And the, the change is given as d b d t is given as 0.02 Tesla per second, and it is increasing.

Let's see. So what is the direction and and the area given as 0.012 meters square? And what is, so what is, the EMF direction and magnitude in this problem. So what we know is e m f is equal to minus, dp by dt, the magnetic flux. And what is phi b?

So this is b times a. So I wanna take the derivative of this 1, d by dt, d by dt. So once you take the derivative, it is either dbdt times area plus, and b times da by dt. So this is fixed. Okay.

And the angle between them is also, the cosine theta is 0. So here is just this thing. Right? So this one is 0.02 test per second times the physical area 0.012 meter squared, and this whole thing is, 24 times 10 to 1, 2, 2, 5. Alright.

So this one, this one would be the EMF, the magnitude of EMF in terms of volts. So you can write this thing as 0 point, so 0.24 millivolts. So what about the direction? So the direction is in such a way that so if this is the external magnetic field like this, the the current will go such a way that the in forming magnetic field will be opposing. So that is why we have a negative sign here.

So so in this way, I can figure out what would be the magnetic field that will create by the wire. And if this is the situation, so if it is creating a magnetic field like this, so the the current should come like this. So meaning that if I sort of, like, draw a battery like this, so the current should go like this. So this whole thing so this whole wire, sort of looks like this, And that's the direction of the EMF. So the current should go in this direction, and that's the direction of the current and.

So that's the so for example, if we have, again, the if the number of loops increases, so I can by, and that will create the the EMF like this. Okay. So let's do another way of creating magnetic field, which is the slide wire generator. For example, let's imagine we have some type of loop, and and this thing moves with a velocity v, and the magnetic field is looking into the page. Like this, b.

Alright. So the idea is the same. This one, if it is changing with time, that is the EMF. So the physical area so what we imagine is this. This is our sliding so this is a sliding piece here, this v, and this has some type of physical area like this.

So, for example, if if the magnetic field, the external magnetic field is like this, so we wanna create a magnetic field which is in the opposite direction. So if I wanna create a magnetic field in the opposite direction, but I wanna make sure whether I wanna do this or not. Let me just go back. Let's try to understand what is changing here. K.

So p is equal to b times a. And I'm shaking the target with just so here, when this moves, for example, the number of so this thing, this can be a constant value, but this one is increasing, this flux. So if this is increasing, and since we cannot recreate a we cannot decrease the area, what we need to do is we want to create a magnetic field which opposes this external magnetic field. So it's going to be in this direction, our magnetic field, which means our current should be in this direction. So when this moves, for example, if it moves to here like that, then the number of magnetic field will be increasing.

And what we want to do is we wanna create magnetic field in that direction. So this is this one. So in order to create this magnetic field so we wanna create a magnetic field like that, so the current should go like this. So this is our magnetic field. So it shows, like, where the direction of the of the the EMF is.

Yeah. Appears. So here, if, if we analyze this, so what we are trying to calculate is so I'm gonna drop the minus sign. I'm just calculating this. So what we are doing is, the change in between b times a.

So that's going to be db by dt times a plus. So I'm writing the most general case, b times d a dt. So in this case, the magnetic field is constant. So I should say here this b is constant, and this is 0. And this is the change in the flux, which should be equal to emf.

Right? So how can I calculate this da by dt? So imagine we were here initially, and then we are here at the final location. So what's happening here the increases. So at certain the velocity so if I calculate this l and then if if I call calculate this to the h, so that is the amount of the area that has been increased.

So I can write here maybe I should just say here x. So this h times x is the area. That's the the the the area that, we have. So, we can write this thing as so the area a is equal to x times h. So the area by dt is, d x by dt times h plus, x times d h dt.

And then this one is 0. It's constant. This width is constant. This one. So here, the x by dt is the velocity that we are pulling.

So here, this expression is v times h, or sometimes we call this l. I think l is the most correct version of this. So it's going to be b times l is e. So this EMF is equal to b times b times l. So the amount of velocity that you are pulling it so if you wanna increase e, the epsilon, you wanna increase the magnetic field.

You wanna increase v, and you wanna increase f. So that's the idea of creating an EMF. So imagine alright. So what what we are doing, here is so this thing So we are moving with velocity v. And now we calculate it or we find that the current also goes like this.

So from the top view, this is the slot in wire with velocity v, and it has an current going in like this. So so this is the the current that we produce, but the magnetic field is into the page. So what's going to happen is, you have this piece of wire, which is going with velocity v, and it is a current I is coming through here, but this is under this external magnetic field. So what's going to happen is that f is equal to I l cross b. So there's going to be a force acting on this.

So, so this is, so the force will be in this direction. So the force will be in this direction like that. And so which makes that thing to slow down. So, what we wanna apply is we wanna apply a force, let's say. So, so this has some magnetic force like this in this direction or with an angle like this, maybe.

So but, also, we wanna apply this external force so that this external force should be equal to I times l times p so that the velocity is constant. So we can achieve this by maybe, like, putting an m g. So it it goes down, and that's gonna apply the the fixed So for example, if we, let's just say, so what would be the power of this thing? So what is the power of this thing? So if we have, let's say, a voltage b and or maybe you can just say so what is power?

So power was energy energy per time. And, so what was the energy? It's a kinetic energy or, like, potential energy per time or it's forced by distance divided by time or force by the velocity. So if you apply a force like this, external force, and this has a velocity v, so f external times the velocity is going to give you the power of this thing. So this is I l b times the velocity is the power of the system.

And, we can also talk about, for example, so this is the power in physics 1. So what is the power in physics 2 definition? Say the and the electrics, So power also is equal to I times v or I squared times r. So somehow these two things will be, like, equal to each other or related to each other. And since this is epsilon, okay, this emf, I can write it like this.

So epsilon times I, and so this is our circuit. So if you move this with velocity v, this is equivalent to a battery like this. Right? So this is the EMF. That's the current I.

And if this has some type of, like, resistance, then I can relate this I, r, and epsilon. So this power, I times epsilon is the power, and I is epsilon squared divided by r also. That's going to be the power that we have which is equal to I times l times b times b. So those are all related to each other. And, so if you wanna calculate, for example so I can still write the current in terms of epsilon divided by r, with the velocity.

And, so I ended up getting, so the power is so what is the power? So I can write so these two things, velocity, so what was epsilon? Epsilon is b times b times l also. And I can write e squared divided by r also with the expression for power. So there are more than one ways to write the power on this thing.

And, yeah. So let's give some values. So velocity, let's say, 10 meter per second, and l is 1 meter, and, magnetic field is 0.1 Tesla, and r, let's call this resistance as 10 ohms. Okay. So what is the power that we get from here?

Bvl square divided by r. That's the power. So 0.1 times 10 times l, which is equal to 1, square divided by r 10 ohm, and that's going to give us 0.1 watts. So all this thing is and it's 10 megabits per second, the


So imagine we have a rod like this, rod, and this is under magnetic field. So imagine the magnetic fields are into the page like this, into the page, and we are moving this with velocity v. So we discussed this before, like, this situation, but let's just review it, like, how what is going to happen or so. Have positive charges, and this is going with velocity v under this magnetic field b. So there will be a magnetic force.

Right? Qvcrossb. So what's the direction of that force? B cross b. Okay.

So there will be a magnetic force like this into this direction. So this is the magnetic field p. So so what's going to happen, the positive charges move up, and the negative charges will move down. Magnetic force. So what we will see in this rod is that the positive charges will accumulate top, and the negative charges will accumulate in the bottom.

So how long will it last? It's going to last until there will be an external magnetic, electric field here. Right? So there will be an electric field so that it's positive times b force up and, q times e force down, which means if the magnetic force is equal to the electric force, then qvb will be equal to q times e, and e is equal to v times b. So that's the case where this is the electric field.

And, so what if we, so in this situation, right, so when we have this positive negative charges accumulated on opposite sides of the rod, what we will see is that if we put a voltmeter here, there will be a potential difference. Top length l here, let's say. So this e times l will be equal to the potential difference, let's say, delta v, the potential difference. And that potential difference is the same thing with this emf. Okay?

So that is that is the EMF and which will be equal to, again, minus d t b by d t. So those are the same physics. So there's not no, So in this case, for example, so the magnetic flux here can be written as minus d by dt, And then we are going to write b times d a in terms of, like, some integral. So here, again, what is e? E is equal to v cross b.

So remember this thing. So I can write here again e is equal to v cross b here. So I if I take that thing and then equate to here, right, so this is b cross b, and I'm gonna multiply with l. Let's say, general case, I'm going to write as d l. And then if you take an integral of that, so this will be equal to on the right hand side of this, which is, emf or minus d by dtb.ta.

Okay. So, so from this, this way of writing here, this EMF, is this form. Okay? So for example, we have the magnetic field here, and then you are pulling it with velocity v. And the EMF that is being occurring here, let's say it's in this direction or something like this.

So it's coming like this. So there's an emf here. So that emf was so if this was constant and this is length l, so this emf was b times b times l. So it's the same formula, but this one is the the the top one is more general. K.

Gonna move on to, generalized Ampere's law. So what is what is Ampere's law? So, again, this is a current I. If you wanna calculate the magnetic field around this, So this was how do we find this? Enclosed was equal to b.pl.

Right? So this was the Ampere's law. So imagine we, cut this, and then let's say, we put some plates here, some plates. We cut the wire and make a void. So the place so if you look from the side, it kinda looks like this.

Okay? So what we know so if you look at here, for example, there will be a magnetic field which is not, there will be a nonzero magnetic field there. So, so what we hear what we say, for example, there will be some b magnetic fields here, b magnetic fields here, and then there will be also some b magnetic field here, although I enclosed at this point will be equal to 0. So here, once I, you know, draw this dl here, like, from r distance away, there will be so here in this, I enclosed will be 0 between the plates, but we know for sure that there will be a magnetic field. So so what we need is we sort of, like, say, you know, since there is an electric field in this direction, so there will be an electric field there.

So I need to write a form. So this is the generalized version, b times dl is equal to so m zero I enclosed. So that is when we apply when there when there is a curve, we apply this. But when there is no count, we are going to write mu 0 epsilon 0 d by dt e dot a. So this is the most general case of this generalized is actually the mag the magnetic, but the electric flux.

Remember? So we use it for with, GasLog. Electric So this is the most, convenient way of writing the, 3rd Maxwell law. Law. Electric permittivity of space of space.

So this was 8 times 8.5 times 10 to the minus 12, and mu zero was the magnetic permittivity of space. Permitivity gets organic. What was the value, 4 pi times 10 to the minus 7? So I'm gonna leave this to you because I asked it in the exam. So just take take a look into Equations for electromagnetism.

So what was the first law? First law was the law. E.da will be equal to q in or q enclosed divided by epsilon 0. So this was Gauss's law, so this is the first law. And what about the second law?

The second law was if you take magnetic field and then calculate the flux, that will be always equal to 0. That's this. What about the 3rd? 3rd is the Ampere's law. If we take magnetic field and multiply with DL, so in parenthesis, I can write as I enclosed plus, epsilon 0 delta or dpebydt.

So here, that is p dot e.tdl will be equal to minus d by d t p b. And what is p? B? That is the magnetic flux. Alright.

So that's So what is chapter 30?



Alright. So so let's imagine I'm going to start chapter 30, which is here somewhere. Alright. So we all talk about this, and then we now know what 29 is about. And alright.

So 30 will be the induction or inductance, the chapter. And what I need is this picture. Okay. So so let's talk about mutual inductance. So what does mutual inductance means?

Alright. So what we see here is that there are 2 coils, and, so let's see. So what we talk about here, mutual. So imagine we have, let's say, a coil, the first coil, co coil 1, and then there's another coil here. Coil So imagine this has a 2, the area.

This is a 1, the area. And if, for example, let's say a current is going through here, I 1, there will be a magnetic field that is starting from the first one and then going towards the second one. Okay? So what's going to happen on the second card was that it kills the man and the field, and it's supposed to create the man curve. So there's a mutual inductance between these coils, and then, let's say so let's say the current is So the current is such a way that the magnetic field here is b 1.

That's let's call this this is b 1. So since the the the b one enters here, b 1, the sky is going to create a b 2, like an induction, which will come into here, b 2. And then this guy will feel the b 2 again and then just rearrange itself to a current, and it's gonna create another b 1 and b 2. So it goes back and forth. So there will be an interaction between these 2.

So this this is what we call mutual. So I 1, in coil 1, let's say, coil 1, form form a magnetic field, and this magnetic field goes into goes into the the coil The first coil is going to create a magnetic field, and then coil. The second coil will feel an EMF. The induced EMF is going to be like this, dp by heating. So this is the induced EMF on the second one, and let's call this, b 2 here because it's about the magnetic flux on the second coil.

Okay? So we are looking into e 2 here. And, so there will be some type of, like, proportionality constant. And then also, maybe I should write here n 2 minus n 2, which is the number of terms. Right?

So that's important as well. So the our new concept here is the proportionality constant proportionality constant constant, and then we are going to call this, like, m 21. So this is actually the mutual inductance. That's what we, we say. So so m 21 is such, such a way that's m 21 times I 1, let's say, will be equal to n 2 times p b 2.

So this is the proportionality constant, so m is the mutual inductance. So mutual inductance is proportional to n and phi divided by the current. So this is something new. And that new thing that we are going to write m and then plug it into here. So e 2 will be equal to minus m 21 m 21 and d I 1 by d t.

And ensure that. P b 2 is equal to made m 21 times I 1 divided by n 2. And then if you take the derivative of this 1, right, then you're gonna use it here, and then that's how we how we are going to see this. And, so this is the proportionality constant. And then so So our next step is, for example, if we, now if, for example, coil 2 coil 2 has has I 2 current, and then that will create a magnetic field, and then that will affect the the first coil in the same way that it got affected.

So if you do the same step here, that what we will see is that the first coil will have minus m 12di2bydt. And here, again, this m12 and m21 are actually equal to each other, which is n 2v2 divided by I 1, and 1 c 1 divided by I 2. Test the metric. So here again so this is m, the unit. M is, Tesla meter square divided by So, so this is what we call mutual inductance, and, that mutual inductance is also called so this Tesla meter squared is also Weber divided by ampere, and then we call this thing as Henry, another name of a physicist.

So this m has terms of Henry. Okay. Alright. So what else we can write about this? Also also, this Henry h will be equal to Weber divided by ampere, and this Weber is Tesla times meter square, which can be written as volt first times second per ampere or ohm times second or joule per ampere square.

So these are all units for mutual inductance Henry. Okay. So let's Alright. So what we mean by that, by this so this expression is important, this one. So let's rewrite this thing.

So m will be equal to n2 phb2 divided by I 1 and then n 1 p b 1 divided by I 2. And from here, we can write m to b, for example. So I can write what is p b 2 is again, remember, this is the first coil, or let me just make this as the first coil. The first coil is going to create a magnetic flux 2. And similarly, this is going to create a magnetic field b 2, and then this will be a 1.

So p b 1 will be b 2 times a 1. And with the physics So n 2 will be equal to magnetic field is b 1 times a 2 divided by the current one is equal to n 1b2a1 divided by I 2. So from here, for example so what else can we say about this? So this is the mutual inductance m. And, so if you take solenoid, for example, and, and then that applies a magnetic field, which is, for example so let's say or, solenoid, The magnetic field was remember, this one will have number of terms, some length l, some current I, and then there's number of turns.

So this will be mu zero I times n divided by n. So this was the magnetic field, remember? And this whole thing so you can maybe just write it here. Just plug that information here, for example. So what does this tells us.

So m will be n 2, and then, so this is the magnetic field, mu0i1 and then n 1 divided by l. Let's say l 1 or l. So this is the magnetic field here times a 2 divided by I 1. So these 2 I cancels out. Right?

So this thing cancels out here. And then what we have is a proportionality constant, which is physical terms. So num nu0, n 1, n 2, a 2, l 1. So you can also take this, take these a 2 and l to be the same. But for the, this mutual inductance is some, some variable.

So Okay. So number of turns and length and cross sectional area is important. So for example, let's just plug in some values. So let's say this n one is, half 1,000 turns and n two is 10 turns. The l is 0.5 meters, and and the mu zero is 4 pi times 10 to the minus 7 and, Weber per meter times ampere.

Okay. So what is the mutual inductance m? Or let's say this is given also. So m is given as 25 times 10 to the minus 6 Henry, and, DEI 2 by DT is given as 2 times 10 to the 6 ampere per second. Okay?

So what is being asked is the what is the induced EMF in this case? Alright. So m is even as, my, sorry, induced emf is given as m times di 2 by dt. So just plug in the value. So all we need is this 1 and this 1.

And here, so 25 times 2 times 10 to the 6 plus 6, which will give us 50 volts. So in this case, we will get, we we get a minus sign here. We get, minus 50 volts. So that means so this EMF is equal to minus n times d p b by d t. Right?

So we can write, for example, d d by dt or m times I. Okay. Yes. N times I is equal to n times phi b. Right?

So that's the formula. And And we made it in the shape. Alright. So what we need from here is, again, I mean, we're gonna get the same thing here. So the the problem is done here.

All the sun is air. E initiative minus m d I n y d t. Alright. So this is mutual inductance, and then, what we are going to, describe is also self inductance. With the self inductance So imagine, for example, So imagine a current is coming through here.

So imagine there's a first loop, and then the first loop is, let's say, has a current. Let's say let me make it this way. So it has a current like this, and then whenever the the the first load has the current, it will create a magnetic field. So there are lots of coils here, for example, and then they will get affected by this here. So for example, this one, even if it's the same loops or same solenoid, this will get, it's, like, affected by the first oil.

I mean, everyone else is also, like, getting affected. All these are getting affected. So this this will feel the magnetic, so, so this will feel the magnetic field before, the the current the current reaches the loop. So that's why the mutual inductance between coils will be this mutual inductance is something between 2 coils like this. But here, the self inductance is within the same coil, like between the loops.

And, so, again, if m was, what was m equal to? N times p divided by the current? So we're going to write here this l, like, capital l, and then it is going to be the same formula, n times p b divided by I. Alright. So so this will code this self inductance.

And self inductance, I can write this thing as, since e we have written it as n two times dpb2bydt, the magnetic flux of the second one, with respect to to time the derivative time derivative of this, m times d I one by d t. So these two things are equal to each other. And we have found that this m was mu0n1 times n2. And then if I take the area to be a and the length is l, like that. And, so the self inductance will be similarly l times I is equal to n times p b.

And I can take the derivative of this l times di by dt, n times d by dt. Okay? So what we are going to call this, this is minus f Here's what we see is that. There's a So this is a powerful, so this EMF, so this means a potential difference potential difference between a and b points. And then let's say we have this battery, and then there is, let's say, a solenoid like this.

So let's imagine something like this. So when we turn on the switch, there will be a current coming in here that and then that current, when there's a change in that current, let's let's say v a b, the potential difference between the these two points is going to be equal to epsilon. Okay? And that epsilon is a potential difference. It depends on the the change in the current.

So so let's just try to understand this a little bit better. So ldi by dt, is equal to epsilon with a minus sign. So let's say the current is I here. So I times r is equal to epsilon. So how do you compare these 2?

Right. So let's do a similarity, analysis on this. So this guy is amperes. This is ohm, and that's equal to the potential volt. Right?

So this current is volt divided by ohm. Right? Just take this one and then plug that one in here. So l times d by dt, so that is you know, you can write here it is delta I by delta t, or you can write this thing as, like, I divided by time will be equal to epsilon. So l and I is volt divided by ohm and tie time is second.

So this is Henry, this guy, and this is going to be volt v. Right? K is equal to all times. So for solenoid, for example, again, what is the mutual inductance? So this is what we are trying to understand this.

And then this is an important so this one is important. N times p b divided by the current. So for a solenoid, again, if the current is coming here, I, number of turns n, and the length is l like this, and there's a current I. So what is the magnetic field? Mu0i times n divided by l.

So what is the magnetic flux? So if this is area A, so l will be equal to n times, for this p b, magnetic field, mu0i, and divided by l, times the physical area a, this guy, and then divided by I. So here what we see, I cancels out, mu zero n square times a divided by l. So this is the mutual inductance of a solenoid. So for example, for a solenoid, if you wanna calculate how much of a henry of one thing is, and then square a divided by little l.

So that gives you the Henry. For example, let's say n is 1,000, and a is, let's say, 1 centimeter square, and l is, let's say, 1 millimeter. Okay? So our l value will be 4 pints times 10 to the minus 7 times a 1000, 10 to the 6, and square. Right?

The area area is 10 to the minus 4 meters square divided by, 10 to the minus 3 meters. Right? So this thing will give us minus 2. 4 pi times minus 2. Right?

Minus 2. So roughly 3, like 12. So it's like 0.112 Henry. So, for example, for a toroidal solenoid, that toroid may they be, cylinder loop, symmetry appears on a toroid peers. So for a toroid so it was something like this.

Right? So this is r, this radius r here, and then a current coming in here, I. So what is the magnetic field? Mir0, I n divided by 2 pi r. Okay?

So if you wanna calculate l, which is n times p b divided by the current, and, what you end up getting here is, square physical area a divided by 2 pi r. So this is for toroid. For example, if you get m to be 1,000 and, area is 5 centimeters square, and r is 10 centimeters, and you get l to be 40 microhenry. And, again, I'll do not micro mini Alright. So we should also so this is our, now, our 3rd, circuit element.

So first, we have this c, we have this r, and now we have this thing, which we will call l. Right? So this l, and then there's a potential difference, for example. So what is the potential difference here? That will be q divided by c.

And what is the potential difference? Delta v will be I times r, right, the current here. And what is delta v here? This will be l d I by d t. So the the in an inductor.

Okay. For example, what about the power here? So let me just talk about just the power of this, but you can, yeah. So what about the energy of this one? It was q squared divided by 2 c, or you can just write q times p divided by 2, etcetera.

What is the energy here? I squared times r. Power. Power. Per time is equal to power.

K? So energy is joules, and joule is equal to what times second. Okay. So here, we can also talk about power here. So power is, p will be equal to I times v, which is here, I times v, like that.

So I can write here, since these 2 are connected, I should write it in terms of, integral. So ldi by dt is the potential, and the current is just I itself. Right? So, basically, what we get from here, the current will be I squared divided by 2. So l times I squared divided by 2, is going to give us the power p for this new term.

And, well, it's not exactly the same because oh, okay. Well, I I should be able to write it here. So I'm making a lot of mistakes because I rush. So this is true. This or I should write l d I by d t is the potential, and then that's the current.

So these 2 are related to each other. So p times d t is equal to l times I d I. So you you're going to take integral like that. Right? So it's going to be the the power times delta t will be equal to l I squared divided by 2.

So s squared divided by 2 divided by delta t is power. Okay? So it's going to be l divided by delta t is equal to power. So power times times as squared by 2 here. Power type delta t is energy.

So, basically, the energy is power times time, you know, p times delta t here. So what we are finding here is this is energy.


Yeah. Yeah. Inductors, So, let's, talk about LC circuits. So in this case, what we are going to do is we are going to charge the capacitor first. So we're going to charge the capacitor with s 1.

So s 1 is on, and then and then s one is off, let's say. We, close it and then, open the s one switch. And then if we do, the the s 2 switch on, then that means we get an LC circuit. So in the first step here in the first step here, the the the the capacitor is charged. So that means it will have an electric field in this system.

So field is in a charged capacity. So in the second step here, what we are going to say that, we so charged when s2 is on, the charged capacitor is going to capacitor is, going to form. So is creating, let's say, a current towards l. Right? And and that current is not constant.

So when it's not constant, when the the capacitor is discharging, when it's not constant, l will react to current change, and the magnetic field will be formed. K? And the magnetic field will be stored. So in this system, there will be some type of, back and forth motion, but let's just, talk about it now, like how we are going to solve about this. So again, what's happening, the positive charges are going to rush towards here.

As they are rushing towards here, there will be a b magnetic field, let's say. And then when they cancel each other, the magnetic field will be maximum, and then the electric field is 0. But when there is when the the the magnetic field is maximum and then there is no charge here or, the the current here, then now the current will be decreasing and is going to reverse its system. Alright. So let's talk about the law again.

Law tells us that, vc+l, the capacitor potential plus v l should be equal to 0. And, so q divided by c+lpid will be equal to 0. And what is, I? So the current is I is dqdt. And so what is d I dt?

Then it's the second derivative of charge with respect to time. So I can write here l d squared q d t squared, and this will be q by c. That's equal to 0. And, so from here, we can write, d square q d t square. So I can get through this l by dividing l both sides.

So it's going to be 1 over lcq, s equal to 0. And, so, if I write it in the other fashion, like d squareddt squared is going to be equal to minus 1 over LC and q. So this is, one of the fundamental functions. When you take the second derivative, it is, almost equal to itself, since the air force response to, we shouldn't have up. So now this will be q will be a function of, sine or cosine and x.

So it will be a function like this. So, so what does, that mean? So if you wanna, try let's try to understand this formula. So if you do the unit analysis on this, for example, they charge So this will be, like, coulomb per second square on the right hand side here. So this will be one over l c, whatever that is.

So one over l c will be, Henry times Perrott like this, and this will be again coulomb. So coulomb castles out when and what we see, Henry times Perot is equal to second square. So that means, again, Okay. So Henry times hertz is. Now that's what it is.

Okay. So now, so this is l c is, is basically frequency. This is charged. This is second square. So one over square root of l c is 1 over second.

And Alright. So if you wanna, write this up, so q is equal to, let's say, a constant times sine function. And sine function, I'm going to write here omega here, which is angular frequency. That's the name of this. Okay?

So if you take the the first derivative with respect to time, you get that will be a times omega cosine omega t. And take another derivative of the top one. So a times omega squared, but it will be a negative sine function. Now this is going to be sine omega t. And and, basically, if this is q, so this will be minus omega square a times sine omega.

So this thing is q. So what we get here is the time derivative with respect to, the the second derivative of the time is equal to minus omega squared q. Yeah. Yeah. And for So q will be equal to a times sine omega t.

And here, omega will be, one over square root of l times c. So that's the frequency of the oscillation. And would have the cell number. And in. So this is q.

And what is a? A is the maximum or, like, q maximum. So we can write it like that. Yeah. Q maximum q maximum.

Sure. Extend to exceed maximum. And So here, omega, again, omega is angular frequency, which has which is equal to 2 pi times f. So this is this is just f is frequency. So if you multiply with 2 pi, that's angular frequency.

And Okay. So what else? We can also talk about, here what is frequency f f will be equal to 1 over 2 pi square root of l times c. Maximum sine omega. What is omega?

One over square root of l times c times t. Okay. So this is the charge of the capacitor. So what is the potential of the capacitor? It is q divided by c.

Right? So it's going to be q maximum divided by c sine function, again, sine t divided by is our v c. C. And what about v l? Well, v l, you can either say v c plus v l will be 0, and then vl will be minus q by c sinep divided by square root of l times c.

But we can also, figure out the current and then figure out v l as well. So another way of writing v l so v l will be l times t e I d t. So I is d two d t. So this is the secondary to all the charge. So that's what it means.

So the inductive potential is l times d squared q d t squared. So if we do this thing, l times the second derivative of, let's say, of this function. Okay? It's going to be, q maximum divided by l c, but we have also a negative sign. And then again, sign t divided by square root of l times c.

This will be b l. So l cancels out, and q by c is going to with a minus sign, which is the same result. Now with a few So so here, q maximum is equal to epsilon times c. So this is the the battery. So it depends on the battery.

And, so this is q maximum. So if you write q maximum epsilon c, you can always also write this thing as is s n o c divided by c, this one, and sine I'm gonna just write omega t here. Writing 1 over square l c and the So it's epsilon sineomega t is v c, and v l will be minus epsilon sineomega t. So, let me just see whether there is a picture that I can use from the book. And then that one, and it must see whether there's a oh, not really.

So if we summarize this, that's actually actually what's happened. And listens. So this is one full cycle. So this thing is one full cycle, and and the frequency of that cycle is 1 over 2 pi square root of l times c. Okay.

Okay. So what's going to happen if I add them up, like all the circuit elements, which makes it RLC circuit. Take a look into RCL or RLC circuit. So we're going to have an epsilon, and then this will be, let's say, charged, and then we open that up, and then this charged capacitor is going to go through this. So a charged capacitor with epsilon is connected to so let's say connected to r and L.

Connected to R and L. CR voltage. The total cap, potential of the capacitance potential of the inductor and the resistance will be equal to 0. And if we write this thing, this is q by c plus. This will be l e I by dt, and this will be I times r.

So we get every, you know, versions of current. Current is dq by dt. So if I write in terms of charge, q by c, l by d squared qdt squared plus instead of I, I will write r times dq by dt. Again, this is also a second derivative. I mean, like, there's a there's a, second degree derivative here and a first degree here, which makes a difference.

So if I rewrite it in this form like this, plus, r by l, so what I'm doing is I am dividing by l everything It's l. So that's going to be, r by l, dqdt. And the third term will be, one over l c. Okay. So this one is a little bit different than the, sine function, and I so it's going to be with the steps, but I'm gonna just write the answer here.

So it's going to be a times, let's say sine or cosine, let's say cosine function, cosine, omega prime, let's say, times t. And, we can always write here, like, find, like, a phase difference, but that can be, let me just not write this. Cosine and and exponential term minus r by 2 l t. So, and this omega prime is now is 1 over lc minus r squared or l squared. So this is our new frequency here, frequency.

So if 1 if you wanna understand this a little bit better, so let me So what does that? Okay. So let's take this function and then make it big, like, red color. So if I want to sketch this function, this function is a cosine function. Like that.

Okay? We are multiplying with this function, and I must make it, with another color. This one. So this function is an exponential function, and it's decaying like this. So if you multiply these 2, what are you going to get?

So once you multiply these 2, what you're going to get, this q of t function, will be basically So this function, so here, this type of decrease is given as e to the minus, r by 2 l t. And, so this one also will be like this function and where the frequency of this one so so the frequency omega prime is the new frequency of the system, and it's a cosine, basically. So so this one will have an omega prime, which is, again, 1 over lc minus r squared by 4 l squared in square root. And and the period of practitioners in that and the precons period No c circuits.